Life Insurance Underwriting Guide

Table of Contents

Doing Business with National Life Group  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 2
Quick Tips for Efficient Processing .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 3
Insurance Basics 9  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
Insurable Interest -- Owner/Beneficiary .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 11
Financial Underwriting 12  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
Underwriting Programs 17 .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . Full Medical/Financial Underwriting .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 17 Accelerated Underwriting Products (EZ Underwriting) 18  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . Simplified Underwriting Products (RapidProtect/RapidProtect NL) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 19
Life Underwriting Requirements .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 21 SummitLife/Advanced Markets IUL .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 21 PeakLife/Advanced Markets IUL .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 22 FlexLife and FlexLife NL 23  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . BasicSecure, BasicSecure NL, TotalSecure, and TotalSecure NL 24  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . SurvivorLife and SurvivorLife NL SIUL .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 25 Term LSW and Term NL Life .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 26
Underwriting Rate Classes Explained .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 27

Accelerated Elite/Preferred/Select Criteria (Permanent Products) 28  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
Fully Underwritten Elite/Preferred/Select Criteria (Permanent Products) 29  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
Accelerated Elite/Preferred/Select Criteria (Term Products) 30  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
Fully Underwritten Elite/Preferred/Select Criteria (Term Products) 31  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
Table of Height and Weight, Ages 16 and Older (Permanent Products) 32  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
Table of Height and Weight, Ages 18 and Older (Term Products) 33  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
Uninsurable and Problematic Risks .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 34
Medical Condition & Potential Ratings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Advanced Sales 38  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
Underwriting Quotes 39  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
Informal Applications 40  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
Foreign National Guidelines .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 41
After-Issue Contract Changes .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 41

Products issued by
National Life Insurance Company« | Life Insurance Company of the Southwest«

National Life Group« is a trade name of National Life Insurance Company, Montpelier, VT, Life Insurance Company of the Southwest (LSW), Addison, TX, and their affiliates. Each company of National Life Group is solely responsible for its own financial condition and contractual obligations. LSW is not an authorized insurer in New York and does not conduct insurance business in New York.
Centralized Mailing Address: One National Life Drive, Montpelier, VT 05604 | 800-906-3310 | www.NationalLife.com

TC8725743(0126)3

For Agent Use Only Ł Not For Use With The Public

Cat No 62797(0126)

LIFE INSURANCE UNDERWRITING GUIDE

Doing Business with National Life Group

Company Website: www.NationalLife.com
National Life Group Contact Center: 800-906-3310
National Life Group Technical Help Desk: HelpDesk@NationalLife.com | 877-654-3499
Customer Relations Life Insurance: LifeCustomerService@NationalLife.com Annuities: Service@NationalLife.com Phone: 800-732-8939
Contacting an employee at NLG: initial of first name followed by last name@nationallife.com
Sales
Life & Annuity Sales Desk: NLGSalesDesk@NationalLife.com
Agent Services
Compensation (commissions and debt inquiries): NLGCompensation@NationalLife.com
Contracting (contracting status, training, AML, E&O, terminations, servicing agent changes, and outstanding requirements): Contracting@NationalLife.com
New Fact Finders, Web Access: NAgencyUpdates@NationalLife.com
Billing
Automatic Payments (EFT) Requests & General Life Billing Questions: EFTTeam@NationalLife.com
Group Bill Questions & Requests: GroupBill-Life@Nationallife.com
Manual Billing Requests & Specific Life Billing Questions: LifeBilling@NationalLife.com
Life New Business Life Forms on Delivery (policy receipt, amendments, and statement of health): Use Agent Portal.

New Business Submission: For applications submitted through eApp, use the Agent Portal. For paper applications, email: NBApplicationImages@NationalLife.com
Large Case New Business Submission (Face amounts $2,000,000 and/or greater than $35,000 of CTP premium): LargeCase@NationalLife.com
Outstanding Requirements (exams, lab slips, questionnaires, and policy forms requested by new business or underwriting): For applications submitted through eApp, use the Agent Portal. For paper applications, email: NBRequirementImages@NationalLife.com
Rewrites: Rewrites@NationalLife.com
Not Taken: Agent Portal or Disbursements@NationalLife.com
Underwriting Risk Assessments -- XRAE Underwriting Quote Tool
(not for use with RapidProtect)
Instructional PDF: Getting Started with the XRAE field Underwriting Tool
Annuity New Business & Inforce Contacts
Annuity Forms on Delivery: Imaging-New@NationalLife.com
Annuity Inforce Customer Service: AgentServices@NationalLife.com
Annuity Billing Requests & Questions: InboundAnnuityPayment@NationalLife.com
New Business Annuity Submission
(including applications and transfer forms)
Imaging-New@NationalLife.com
Centralized Mailing Address
One National Life Drive, Montpelier, VT 05604

2

For Agent Use Only Ł Not For Use With The Public

LIFE INSURANCE UNDERWRITING GUIDE

Quick Tips for Efficient Processing

Familiarizing yourself with National Life Group's New Business and Underwriting Department will inevitably make you a success with the company and help set realistic expectations with your client.
Our top priority and promise to you are to provide firstclass service. With this in mind, we have developed this comprehensive field underwriting guide. Whether it is your first time sending an application or you are a seasoned agent, you will know ahead of time what you and your client can expect. We believe using this guide will help you get your business through faster and close the sale you worked so hard to earn!
Good field underwriting is essential to our partnership. Thorough field underwriting practices help to set expectations and make the process more efficient. Ę Make sure your client gathers all information before
the application is taken (i.e., Social Security numbers, addresses, medication information, driver's license, passport information, physician's name and contact information, date of last physician's visit, etc.). Ę The information provided on the application is critical for consideration of life insurance coverage. Your responses must be complete and accurate to ensure the best coverage possible.
Submitting an Application
We are focused on helping you improve productivity. As part of our journey to Straight through Processing, we have eApp available through iPipeline. eApp is a dynamic interface that poses the questions the client needs to answer and alerts the agent to potential errors in the responses captured. Since the interface will guide agents through all the required questions, agents will no longer have to decide if a question is appropriate. eApp supports the submission of applications in Good Order. eApp integrates with our new business platform. Once you submit the application, the interface will send you a policy number.

Other Ways to Submit an Application
Ę Applications via eApp should use the secure upload on the Agent Portal
Ę Paper applications only can be submitted by: Ł Email: NBApplicationImages@NationalLife.com
Ę U.S. Mail: National Life Group Attention: New Business Department M300, One National Life Drive Montpelier, VT 05604
Choosing to submit an application using a method other than eApp can slow down the underwriting time due to inaccurate state paperwork being submitted, missing forms, and missing answers to questions. This could significantly impact the time it takes a file to get through new business and underwriting.
Completing an Application
Ę Agents should complete applications with the proposed insured (face to face or virtually).
Ę Agents should be fluent in their clients' native language. Agents should not use an interpreter to complete an application.
Ę Ask every question on the application. A life insurance policy is a legal and binding contract. We will uphold our promise to provide your client with the best possible solution based on their needs. The insurance application asks each question for a particular reason. It helps the underwriter to conduct a proper risk assessment and provides your client with the best offer with the information in hand. Please collect all information regarding your client's financial and medical history during the application process to ensure this assessment is accurate.
Did you know? If a client does not provide their accurate financial and medical history upfront and it is later discovered to be material misrepresentation, the client could risk having their policy rescinded if approved and issued.

3

For Agent Use Only Ł Not For Use With The Public

LIFE INSURANCE UNDERWRITING GUIDE

Required Questions Commonly Missed on an Application
Ę Has the insured applied for life or disability insurance elsewhere?
Ę Will the client replace any life insurance coverage inforce? Does the insured have any inforce life insurance coverage? Will any existing coverage be replaced?
Ę Has the insured been convicted of a misdemeanor (including but not limited to DUI or disorderly conduct)?
Ę Name and address of personal physician or name of clinic client last visited and outcome of the visit*
NLG requires adults ages 60 and over to have routine health care and a physical within the last 24 months. Otherwise, NLG will need to reject the file.
Ę Name and purpose of each current prescription medication*
Ę Past and present medical conditions, date diagnosed, and treatment received*
Ę Upcoming medical appointments, procedures, and follow-ups*
By taking the extra necessary time with your client up-front during the underwriting process, you will experience faster turnaround times!
Did you know? By providing the client's past and current medical history, along with the date the condition was diagnosed, the treatment required, and the control of the condition, you can speed up the underwriting process by up to five (5) business days.

Status Inquiries
You can check the status of all your pending business by following up on your cases through the Agent Portal under Book of Business: New Business >> Pending New Business Outstanding Requirements Using the Agent Portal grants you access to the current status of your case. The agent web portal will display which requirements are outstanding, if any.
Did you know? The agent portal will tell you if action is required on your part and what outstanding items New Business and Underwriting may need from you.
Where to Send Outstanding Requirements
Agents should submit any questionnaires, exams, attending physician statements, cover letters, financial documents, EFT, 1035,and replacement or rewrite forms by using the Agent Portal.
Did you know? As requirements come in, they are attached to the file automatically as they are received and date stamped. This reduces mistakes and allows for timely processing of the requirements.
Need to Speak with Someone in New Business or Underwriting Regarding Your File?
We want to hear from you and love talking to you. Please know, however, we are busy trying to review, approve, and issue your business! If your case manager or underwriter cannot pick up the phone, please leave a message. They will return your phone call within one (1) business day.

* The health questions on the application must be completed.

4

For Agent Use Only Ł Not For Use With The Public

LIFE INSURANCE UNDERWRITING GUIDE

Want to Reduce the Number of Emails Between You and the Home Office?
Please read all communication sent from the home office to you. Please answer each question(s) in its entirety with one email for the most efficient processing. Avoid answering one question at a time. Also, please remember to provide full details!
Illustrations
Contact the Sales Desk for assistance with running illustrations at NLGSalesDesk@NationalLife.com.
States that have adopted the NAIC Illustration Regulation require a signed illustration or valid sales certification along with the application. Agents do not need to submit these requirements if a state hasn't adopted the NAIC Model Regulation and the regulations do not require a signed illustration. Agents are required to familiarize themselves with their state's regulations.
TotalSecure applications also require an illustration to be submitted with the application.
Policy Delivery
Once the agent receives the policy, unless otherwise directed, they should deliver it to the policy owner in person as soon as possible. A policy transmittal accompanies the policy, which outlines all delivery requirements and receipts needed to complete the sale. Return the requirements by: Ę Uploading them to the Agent Portal Ę Using the self-addressed envelope enclosed with
the printed policy Ę Emailing them to: FormsOnDelivery@NationalLife.com

If it is determined that a material misrepresentation was made in the application for the policy, the policy may be rescinded. The policy and all attached riders are deemed null and void, according to applicable state laws and regulations, all premiums are refunded, and commissions are reversed. What constitutes a material misrepresentation is governed by state law, but it generally means that information was omitted or not presented at the time of application which would have changed the underwriting decision made at the time.
Examples of circumstances that may trigger a contestable review include: Ę Third party information received after issue Ę After issue requests that require new underwriting
evidence Ę Claims that occur during the 2-year contestable period
Agent Commissions and Contracting
Ę LSW and National Life commissions are generated weekly. Please see the website www.NationalLife.com for a Life commission cutoff schedule.
Ę Please note that Pennsylvania requires us to appoint you in their state before solicitation.
Visit the Agent Portal or the NLG Mobile App for commission, contracting, website, or forms-related items.

Contestable Reviews & Rescissions
Policies generally become incontestable once they have been in force during the lifetime of the insured for a period of two (2) years from the issue date of a policy. Prior to that time, during a policy's contestable period, the Company reserves the right to perform a contestable review or investigation. This review may include obtaining additional medical and/or financial information regarding the insured and/or policy owner.

5

For Agent Use Only Ł Not For Use With The Public

LIFE INSURANCE UNDERWRITING GUIDE

When Medical Testing is Required
Depending on the product, issue age, face amount, and medical history, the policy may require complete testing (paramedical exam, blood specimen, urinalysis specimen, and electrocardiograms). The medical exam is made part of the policy and can be used during a contestable review. Unless otherwise noted, NLG will order exams and labs when they are required
An agent should not order medical testing without authorization from a home office underwriter if it is not an age and amount requirement. Doing so could result in the agent being charged for the expense incurred.
Testing should not be ordered until the applicant has completed an application, and has signed the authorization, HIPAA, and HIV consent form. Having the client complete the testing ahead of time is against state insurance regulations. The state in which the contract is signed in can impose significant fines to the insurer. This could result in extra expense being charged to your client in the form of premium increases. If the testing is ordered without the client signing any of the above, please know you may be liable for the charges incurred that we did not specifically ask for.

When a paramedical exam is required, please guide your client about the process and help to set realistic expectations.
The medical examiner must be fluent in the client's language, or the paramedical company must provide an interpreter. Examiners cannot use a family member or anyone benefiting from the policy as a translator.
The client should do the following: Ę Bring a photo ID such as a driver's license Ę Fast for at least 12 hours Ę Avoid strenuous exercise for at least 12 hours prior
to the exam Ę Bring a list of all medications

6

For Agent Use Only Ł Not For Use With The Public

LIFE INSURANCE UNDERWRITING GUIDE

Approved Paramed Vendors
Depending on the product, issue age, rate class, face amount, and medical history, Underwriting may require complete testing. Please review the Life Underwriting Requirements in this guide. Unless otherwise noted, National Life/LSW will order exams and labs when they are required. If instructed by the Home Office to order an exam and/or labs, agents must use one of the following companies; reference LSW/National Life when making contact: Ę APPS-Portamedic
Ł www.appslive.com | 800-727-2101 Ę Exam One
Ł www.examone.com | 877-933-9261
If a translator is needed for your client, make sure to indicate it on the Agent's Report.
Occasionally, medical records from the proposed insured's physician may be needed due to the face amount applied for or because of the client's medical history. National Life Group uses Parameds.com to retrieve those records.
Ł www.parameds.com | 800-872-3674
Attending Physician Statements can range from 10Ł2,000 pages. Please allow up to 5 business days from the date records are received for underwriting to review.
Laboratory Testing Services
Clinical Reference Lab is the approved testing service for blood profiles and urinalyses. Use of our approved lab helps ensure the timely transmission of test results. A urinalysis is required whenever blood testing is needed. Please refer to the product-specific charts in this guide for additional information. HIV consent forms must be submitted in those states where required for all proposed insureds that require laboratory testing. Completion of these forms is the agent's responsibility.
Did you know that the Agent Portal can provide Underwriting Guidance?
Click on the link to navigate to Underwriting Guidance.

Medical Testing Protocol
Medical Testing Orders
National Life Group does not authorize ordering or completing medical testing, such as paramedical exam or laboratory tests (blood/urine), until after the proposed insured has completed and signed NL or LSW application forms, including an authorization and appropriate HIPAA form.
Certain products may not require initial routine medical testing. Please refer to the product-specific charts for more information. Unless otherwise noted, National Life/ LSW will order exams and labs when they are required. We reserve the right to request medical testing for cause (such as diabetes, morbid obesity, etc.) National Life Group will request age- appropriate medicals anytime the amount of the NL/LSW exceeds the maximum non-fluid coverage amount.
Existing coverage with National Life will impact the needed requirements. Please consult with your underwriter.
Release of Medical Testing
Our standard protocol is for the paramedical service providers to send the exam, EKG, senior assessment, and lab slip along with the specimens to the lab for timely processing when medical testing is required. The Home Office will receive testing results, and any policy issued will include a copy of the paramedical exam.
Requests for Lab Results to be Sent to a Client
Lab results can be received in one of two ways: Ę The Paramed Examiner will provide a slip with
information and code to retrieve it directly from the lab. Ę Submit a Form 7935 Release for Medical Information
signed by the client to the Home Office. Lab results will be sent via U.S. Postal Service to the client's address on record within five (5) business days of receipt of the information.

7

For Agent Use Only Ł Not For Use With The Public

LIFE INSURANCE UNDERWRITING GUIDE

Medical Testing Completed by Other Companies
We will consider using another carrier's paramedical exam, EKG, and/or lab results completed within the last 12 months through age 69, and within the last six months for ages 70 and above, if copies are made available to us. We reserve the right to request current testing at older ages, for large face amounts, and at the underwriter's discretion.
Attending Physician Statement (APS)
An APS (copy of the client's medical records) may be required by the underwriter in order to complete the underwriting process. Obtaining these records can take 2Ł6 weeks, depending on the physician. The application should include the complete information (full name, address, phone number) for the personal physician as well as for all other physicians and specialists seen.
The Home Office will order medical records, unless otherwise noted, through Parameds.com.
Attending Physician Statement (APS) Guidelines
Medical records should not be ordered unless requested by the underwriter after initial review of the application. Because it can be cost prohibitive to order multiple APSs on smaller face amounts, all applications should be submitted with all medical questions answered completely and details provided whenever possible. You should also consult the listing of Uninsurable & Problematic Risks in this guide before completing an application on a prospective client with complex medical issues.
The underwriter will make every effort to use the application, medical questionnaires, prescription database, and other tools to assess the risk while considering the total amount of the insurance applied for.

Routine (APS) Guidelines

Ages 0Ł17 Ages 18Ł40 Ages 41Ł60 Ages 61Ł69 Ages 70 & up

$1,000,001 and up $5,000,001 and up $2,000,001 and up $1,000,001 and up All face amounts

Certain medical impairments may require an APS regardless of face amount. These may include, but are not limited to: Ę Alcohol/Drug Abuse and/or treatment Ę Cardiovascular or Coronary Artery Disease Ę Cancer Ę Diabetes treated by insulin/with tobacco use Ę Emphysema, COPD, Chronic Bronchitis Ę Heart Murmur Ę Hepatitis Ę Kidney/Renal Disease Ę Lupus Ę Mental Disorders requiring multiple
or psychotropic medications Ę Multiple Sclerosis Ę Peripheral Vascular Disease Ę Stroke, TIA, CVA, Cerebral Hemorrhage Ę Ulcerative Colitis/Crohn's Disease Ę Opioid/Narcotic/Chronic Pain Medication Ę History of incarceration Ę PTSD Ę Multiple chronic medical conditions Ę Emergency room visit or hospitalization in
the last 6 months

Requests for medical records may also be at the underwriter's discretion due to third party information, abnormal lab findings, etc., or based on older ages and/or face amounts.

Motor Vehicle Report
(Ordered by Home Office)
Motor Vehicle Reports are ordered on all applicants ages 16 and up, all face amounts.

8

For Agent Use Only Ł Not For Use With The Public

LIFE INSURANCE UNDERWRITING GUIDE

Insurance Basics

The Life Insurance Application
Once executed and signed by all parties involved, life insurance applications are a legal and binding document between the applicant, the owner, and the company. The insurance company agrees to pay for the claim if something were to happen to the proposed insured, provided the applicant answered all questions on the application truthfully and all underwriting requirements are completed. Therefore, it's important to take care when filling out the application. Not taking the time to ensure that the insurance company has the most relevant information about the insured will delay the application in the underwriting process, and will result in a less than favorable pricing, or could cause the insured's policy to be rescinded due to material misrepresentation.
Two-Year Contestability Period
If an insured passes away or if a claim is submitted within the first two years of the coverage being in effect, the insurance company has a right to contest or question the claim. If the applicant provides inaccurate information on the application in order to receive an offer for coverage or to get better rates, this is misrepresentation and could result in the denial of the benefit or claim.
Rescission
The revocation or cancellation of an insurance contract due to material misrepresentation. All premiums paid into the contract plus interest will be refunded to the insured. The policy will be cancelled. A rescission results in the agent receiving a chargeback on commissions.

Medical Information Bureau
The Medical Information Bureau (MIB) is a non-profit company owned by members that helps prevent insurance fraud. It is an essential underwriting tool that our company uses for every life application we receive. If an applicant omits pertinent information about their health, financial, or avocation history on the application, MIB will alert the insurance company of the errors and omissions who will then investigate. Preventing fraud helps drive down the cost of life and health insurance. The underwriter can never make an adverse decision based on MIB information. The MIB information is FCRA regulated.
Prescription Data Base Report
This report is an electronic query of an individual's past and current prescription history provided in real time, quickly identifying the number of prescriptions prescribed by a provider, the name of the provider, and the address.
Did you know the prescription database captures prescription fills going back seven years? So be sure to not only ask your client about what medications they are currently taking ,but also what medications they've taken in the past.
Rewrite
The process of making a change to a contract that has been issued within 120 days of the signing date of the application.

Third Party Medical Evidence
Additional databases are used to find medical information when available, such as lab results, routine health care, and physician information.

9

For Agent Use Only Ł Not For Use With The Public

LIFE INSURANCE UNDERWRITING GUIDE

Nexus

Nexus comes into play when an application is executed in a state other than the Owner or Insured's residence state. Because states have their own laws that govern life insurance companies, the states want to make sure their residents are issued policies in accordance with that state's laws. When an application is executed in a state other than the state of residence of the Owner or Insured, we require that there be an acceptable connection (nexus) between the state of execution and the Owner/Insured.
Acceptable Scenarios
Many state insurance departments are sensitive to business written on their residents in other states, so it is critical that the connection is clearly stated when an application with a nexus situation is submitted. The following are acceptable scenarios for writing an application in a state different from the resident state: Ę The Insured/Owner owns real estate or another
residence in that state Ę The company that the Insured/Owner works for
is based in that state Ę The Insured/Owner owns a company based in
that state Ę The Owner is a trust governed by the laws of the
state where the application is to be completed Ę The Insured/Owner is a foreign national that does
not have a state of residence but meets the nexus requirements to qualify for US based life insurance (see Foreign National Guidelines) Ł Since the Insured/Owner isn't a resident of any
particular state, state nexus rules do not apply Ł If the foreign national does have a state of
residence, state nexus rules do apply

Agent Licensing
All of the scenarios noted above are subject to the appropriate agent licensing in both states. Some states require the agent(s) to be licensed in both the insured and proposed owner's resident state and the state of execution.
Product Availability
All of the scenarios noted above are subject to the product availability in both states. Also, if the state of execution is a border state to the insured's or proposed owner's residence state and the residence state has either disapproved the policy form or approved a materially different policy form, the residence state insurance department may require the sale to be canceled and/or require it to be changed to the policy form approved by the residence state.
Application Forms
When writing an application that has met the nexus guidelines and is executed in a state other than the residence state, the application forms used must be the approved forms for the state of execution.
State of Execution Certification
Form 9928 must be completed when a life insurance or annuity application is completed and signed in a state other than the state of residence of the insured or proposed Owner. This form is available on the Company website.

Exception
An exception to this rule would be if the Insured/Owner was a relative of the agent. Relatives would only include immediate family members such as spouse, parent, sibling, or child.

10

For Agent Use Only Ł Not For Use With The Public

LIFE INSURANCE UNDERWRITING GUIDE

Insurable Interest -- Owner/Beneficiary

Insurance law and public policy in the various states require that we establish an Insurable Interest between the Proposed Insured and the Owner and/or Beneficiary exists at the time we issue a life insurance policy. The strictest definition of insurable interest suggests that the Owner and/or Beneficiary must suffer a quantifiable financial loss at the Insured's death. In other words, the Owner and/or Beneficiary must be better off if the Insured lives rather than dies.
Because the Owner controls several aspects of the policy, such as the right to change the beneficiary, change the face amount or riders, or cancel the policy, the insurance company is charged with assuring there is insurable interest of the owner for any policy issued.
The simplest, most common relationship we insure is that between spouses. Survivor income, debt repayment, tuition costs, and final expenses are all quantifiable needs that become readily apparent at death in this situation and are perfectly appropriate purposes for life insurance. Loan repayment in debtor relationships, key-person and buy-sell agreements in business relationships, and estate protection are other fairly quantifiable needs that can be supported by life insurance.
The law also makes allowance for the bonds of love and affection that exist between spouses (or "significant others"), when parents insure minor children, and when grandparents insure grandchildren (with parental approval).
The relationships between cousins, nieces/nephews, and aunts/uncles are more difficult to insure because the financial and emotional ties are hard to identify and quantify.
Except when spouses insure each other or when parents insure minor children, it is the Agent's responsibility to carefully describe the insurable interest supporting any application where the Owner is someone other than the Proposed Insured and if the relationship of the Owner to the Beneficiary is questionable. It's important that the explanation include the financial loss incurred at the Proposed Insured's death.
The owner and beneficiaries on their contract often change over the life of the policy.

Generally accepted ownership arrangements include Insured, Spouse, Parent of Minor Child, Grandparent, Business Partner, Business/Corporation Owned by the Insured, and Trusts.
When a minor becomes owner, by reason of the death of the current owner, a court-appointed legal guardian is required to act on behalf of the child for all dealings with the policy. Additionally, most transactions would require a court order authorizing action requested by the legal guardian.
You can avoid this situation by including a contingent owner on the policy.
To add a contingent owner prior to policy issue, submit a request through the Agent Portal with the following information: Ę Name Ę Date of birth Ę Social Security number Ę Relationship to the insured
To add a contingent owner after a policy is issued, please complete a 1492 Ownership Change form and email it to TitleDepartment@NationalLife.com.

11

For Agent Use Only Ł Not For Use With The Public

LIFE INSURANCE UNDERWRITING GUIDE

Financial Underwriting

Financial Underwriting is the evaluation of the proposed insured's personal and business financial background. During the analysis we need to confirm that the need for insurance as applied for, as well as any inforce coverage with our company and/or other carriers, is reasonable and in line with the insured's needs. It is the underwriter's responsibility to make sure the policy will be affordable in order to sustain premium payments. It is necessary to establish the insurable interest of the beneficiary in the life of the prospective insured at the time of underwriting, and the financial loss that will occur in the event of an unexpected and untimely death of that insured.
While life insurance can have other specialty uses such as cash value accumulation, the primary purpose of life insurance is to protect against a loss and the death benefit cannot exceed the client's economic ("human life") value.
The writing agent is an important source of information. Through a cover letter, he/she can provide an explanation of the purpose, need, and method used to establish the requested face amount and total line of coverage, as well as any unusual aspects of the case and competitive situations. Copies of the needs analysis and financial statement should accompany applications with large face amounts.

Financial Documentation

Depending on the face amount requested, we may need additional documentation to financially justify coverage. This documentation includes, but is not limited to:

Ę E-inspection reports ordered by Underwriting

Ę Confidential Financial Questionnaire/CFQ (Form 1392)

Ę Income Verification (IV) includes items such as (but not limited to):

Ł 1392 signed by CPA (can be used as IV and/or TPV)

Ł Tax Return Ł W2 Ł 1099

Ę Third Party Verified Financials (TPV) includes items such as (but not limited to):

New York Financial Suitability Review (all cases)
Effective February 1, 2020, all New York contracts are subject to enhanced suitability review per Regulation 187. In order to perform this additional level of suitability review, we will require that the Confidential Financial Questionnaire (form 1392) be completed on all NY applications. To avoid delays, include this questionnaire when submitting any NY applications.
Juvenile coverage for children ages 0Ł17:
For all juvenile coverage:
Ę Child must be at least 14 days old and be U.S. citizen or permanent resident.
Ę Acceptable ownership is limited to parents/legal guardians or grandparents only (guardianship paperwork will be necessary).
National Life will consider permanent coverage on a juvenile up to a face amount of $500,000, regardless of the amount of coverage in force (and/or applied for) on parents or siblings.
For requested coverage amounts that result in a total line of insurance coverage from $500,001 to $1,000,000, National Life can consider up to the amount of insurance in force on the breadwinning parent* (non-breadwinning parent should also be adequately insured). Siblings need to have like coverage (equal face amount or premium contribution).
Juvenile applicants for greater than $1,000,000 will be considered on an individual basis. National Life can consider amounts up to 50% of insurance in force on the breadwinning parent* (non-breadwinning parent should be adequately insured). Siblings need to have like coverage (equal face amount or premium contribution).
For total line requests greater than $3,000,000, sufficient financial/estate planning needs to be in place and documentation of the planning will need to be shared with underwriting.

Ł 1392 signed by CPA (can be used as IV and/or TPV)

Ł Third party business valuation reports

Ł Brokerage/Bank statements

Ł Real estate holding documentation

* PLEASE NOTE: Proof of in-force coverage on the breadwinning parent may be requested at underwriter's discretion.

12

For Agent Use Only Ł Not For Use With The Public

LIFE INSURANCE UNDERWRITING GUIDE

Juvenile coverage (continued):
New York contracts have special rules that must be followed on Juveniles up to age 14 and 6 months.
Ę For ages 0Ł4 years and 6 months, it's the maximum of $50,000 or 25% of the inforce coverage on the life of the parent who is applying. whichever is greater.
Ę For ages 4 years and 6 monthsŁ14 years and 6 months, it's the maximum of $50,000 or 50% of the inforce coverage on the life of the parent who is applying, whichever is greater.
Ę If parents are joint owners, it's the maximum of $50,000, 25% or 50% on the life of the parent with the greater coverage, whichever is greater.
These limits do not apply if a grandparent is purchasing the coverage on the child and the child is not dependent on that grandparent for support. In this situation we are able to follow our normal juvenile guidelines.
New York contracts for juveniles ages 14 and 6 months to age 17.
Refer to guidelines in "For all juvenile coverage" section on page 12.

Personal Insurance

Income Replacement Multipliers

Age 18Ł30 31Ł40 41Ł50 51Ł60 61Ł65 66Ł69

Factor Time Income 40x annual earned income 35x annual earned income 25x annual earned income 15x annual earned income 10x annual earned income 5x annual earned income

Other Personal Insurance
For larger face amounts requested, it is the agent's responsibility to inform the client that the purchase of a life insurance policy is a binding financial contract that requires disclosure of personal and/or business financial information. Depending on the insurance need, specific concrete forms of financial verification or attestation(s) may be required. Below are National Life Group's Financial Underwriting Requirements:

$2,000,001+ $5,000,001+ $10,000,001+

EI

CFQ

Ł

IV

Ł

Ł

TPV

Ł

(age 70+)

(age 18+)

EI

E-Inspection

CFQ

Confidential Financial Questionnaire (Form 1392)*

IV

Income Verification (see page 12)

TPV

Third Party-Verification Financials (see page 12)

If you have a family applying for life insurance, it is important that the total premium does not exceed 10% of the client's annual income. If it does, the underwriter will reserve the right to ask for additional financial documentation.

Earned income is money received from paid work. It is not income from investments, rental property, alimony, savings accounts etc. Underwriters take into the consideration earned income only.

* All NY applications must include this form at all face amounts.
These are general guidelines. We reserve the right to request financial requirements at the underwriter's discretion. See Business Insurance Guidelines for additional underwriting requirements that may be requested

13

For Agent Use Only Ł Not For Use With The Public

LIFE INSURANCE UNDERWRITING GUIDE

Personal Insurance

Estate Protection/ Estate Planning
Final Expense Coverage
Coverage on Older-Age Applicants & Dependent Parents

Purpose of insurance: Life insurance coverage to protect the assets from sale for estate tax purposes. The personal net worth of an individual or family is used as the basis for a calculation of an approximate estate tax liability and related expenses. The underwriter will consider the nature of the assets and how their value has changed over time at a reasonable rate of growth, compounded up to 10 to 20 years depending on the clients' ages and risk class and offset by expected interest rate.
National Life Group does not offer a stand-alone final expense or burial coverage. (With appropriate financial justification to a maximum up to $100,000 may be considered with final expenses being considered as part of the overall need for coverage.)
Purpose of insurance: Personal insurance on older-age applicants may be needed for estate tax situations (see estate planning) or asset repositioning. Final expenses may be considered in the overall need for coverage. Income replacement is not applicable at ages 70+.
Retirement income: Cash value may be used for retirement income. However, the death benefit must be financially justifiable.
Coverage on dependent parents: A limited amount of coverage may be considered on dependent parents if a financial loss is demonstrated -- what is the quantifiable financial loss that the family must replace? Ę If services provided to the family by the dependent parent would require significant
expense to replace, how was that amount determined? Ę The head of household (adult child of dependent parent) must have sufficient life
insurance coverage in force at an amount greater than being applied for one parent. Ę The head of household's income must be sufficient to support the family finances
and total line of coverage for household members. Ę Coverage cannot be used to create an estate at death. With appropriate financial
justification a maximum up to $100,000 (total with all carriers) may be considered. However, if no financial justification is demonstrated no coverage will be issued.

State & Federal Assistance Recipients
Non-Working Spouse Coverage

Premium to income ratio In order to sustain long term premium payments, generally households with modest annual income should not exceed 10% of income for life insurance premiums. Households with greater annual income may put a larger percentage of their income in their policies; this will be considered on an individual basis.
Individuals whose primary source of income is state or federal aid programs, Supplemental Security Income (SSI), or Social Security Disability Income (SSDI) generally have a minimal need for life insurance other than a nominal final expense policy. If this is their only source of income, we would not offer coverage.
If the working spouse has inforce/pending coverage, we can match their coverage up to $1,000,000. Any amount greater than $1,000,000 will require financial justification. If the working spouse is uninsurable, we would allow the non-working spouse coverage in line with earned household annual income.

14

For Agent Use Only Ł Not For Use With The Public

LIFE INSURANCE UNDERWRITING GUIDE

Charitable Coverage
Asset Repositioning Creditor (Personal) IOLI/STOLI (Investor Owned Life Insurance/ Stranger Owned Life Insurance) Bankruptcy
15

At National Life we will consider Charitable Giving with the following guidelines: Ę We will consider up to 20x the average annual charitable gift or remaining life
expectancy (ages: 21Ł70: 20x, ages 71+ up to a maximum of 10x). The average annual charitable gift will be determined by averaging the charitable gift given to the charity over the past 3 years. Ę The individual's personal life insurance needs must be met. Ę We will consider up to 50% of existing personal coverage. Ę If the proposed insured does not have a historical pattern of gifting to the charity, the maximum death benefit considered will be: Ł Individual consideration based on the connection to the charity. We would want to
see a detailed cover letter explaining the relationship to the charity. Ł We may consider up to a maximum of 50% of existing personal coverage, however
if there is not a significant relationship to the charity, we may be unable to consider the charitable policy. Ł If the proposed insured is considered a High-Net-Worth individual consideration can be given based upon their proven net worth as follows: Ę Net Worth < $5 Million: Individual consideration based on the connection to the
charity. We would want to see a detailed cover letter explaining the relationship to the charity. A cover letter explaining the client's relationship to the charity and the details regarding the contribution should be provided with the application. Ę Net Worth $5 to $10 Million: Allow up to 10% of Net Worth. Ę Net Worth $11 Million to $50 Million: Allow up to 20% of Net Worth. Ę Net Worth $51 Million to $100 Million: Allow up to 30% of Net Worth. Ę Net Worth greater than $100 Million: Allow up to 40% of Net Worth. Ę The Charitable giving policy should not exceed 50% of existing personal coverage.
Any assets or income being repositioned into life insurance to enhance or leverage a legacy for wealth transfer purposes should not cause future financial hardship for the client and family.
Must qualify for death benefit using financial guidelines above.
A copy of the loan document should be submitted with the agent's cover letter outlining details of loan terms and status of loan. Personal home mortgages will be considered up to 100%; other personal loans up to 75% of loan amount. Use of collateral assignment for outstanding loan amount to lender is recommended.
It is the policy of National Life Group not to support any form of Investor Owned Life Insurance (IOLI), including "non-recourse premium financing", Stranger Owned Life Insurance (STOLI), or Charity Owned Life Insurance (CHOLI), where the intention of the proposed owner at the time of sale is to sell the policy to an investor, group of investors, life settlement company, or charity. Applications for life insurance that involve such arrangements should not be submitted.
There are different types of bankruptcy filings but the most common are Chapters 7, 11, and 13. From an underwriting perspective, they can be viewed differently. We will not offer coverage to an individual with a history of Chapter 7 bankruptcy until the bankruptcy proceedings have been discharged, and the client is working full time and demonstrates a financial need for a reasonable amount of coverage. We will consider coverage for applicants currently in Chapter 11 or 13 once the applicant is making regular debt payments and they are not subject to any court-imposed restrictions. All applicants will be underwritten on their own merit, taking into consideration stable employment, annual income, net worth, purpose, and need for coverage, as well as any medical concerns.
For Agent Use Only Ł Not For Use With The Public

LIFE INSURANCE UNDERWRITING GUIDE

Business Insurance
Insurance is frequently used to protect against financial loss in a business relationship. The most common are Key Person, Buy/Sell, and Deferred Compensation. The amount of death benefit must be suitable for the given business financial situation. Each business sale should include a detailed cover letter and Business Insurance Worksheet (form 20098). If the contract is employer owned, the Insured Notification and Consent Form (form 8453) must be filled out and submitted prior to issue.

Key Person Buy-Sell Cross Purchase/ Stock Redemption Deferred Compensation
Loan Protection/Creditor (Business) Executive Bonus

Individuals who make significant contributions to the profitability of a business and cannot readily be replaced may be considered Key Persons. Generally, a multiple of annual salary, such as five (5) times income, would be considered -- 10 times for well-established businesses. Stock options, bonuses, and certain benefits, such as housing and automobile allowances, will also be factored into compensation.
All owners should be proportionately insured based on their established business interest and the fair market value outlined in the buy-sell agreement. If there is no buy-sell agreement, a cover letter is needed with details on how fair market value was determined. In addition, the last two years of income statements and balance sheet information is needed -- or a third party business valuation.
Deferred compensation can be divided into two broad categories: qualified plans and non-qualified plans. Qualified plans allow the employer to take a tax deduction (as a normal business expense) when contributions are made to the plan. These contributions are made on a before-tax basis and the employee is not subject to income taxes at the time of the contribution, but is instead allowed to defer taxes until benefits are distributed from the plan. Non-qualified plans do not receive this tax savings: the employer cannot take a deduction for contributions and the employee must pay income taxes on contributions in the year in which they are made.
Because a key benefit of this concept is that the cash value buildup of the policy grows income tax deferred and can potentially be accessed using policy loans or withdrawals* as a supplement to retirement benefits, a product with a lower face amount and maximum funding best meets the deferred compensation concept.
The Underwriter will require salaries, benefit being refunded, and amount of insurance being applied for. Long term financial outlook of the business is also a financial consideration.
A maximum of 75% of the outstanding loan amount will be considered. Complete details regarding the purpose and terms of the loan must be provided. Collateral assignment of the death benefit for the loan balance should be used.
Employers may offer an executive bonus plan to provide additional incentives by paying life insurance premiums for the executive employee's personally owned policy. The amount may be defined in a deferred compensation agreement and should be justified by personal insurance needs. A copy of any deferred compensation agreement should be submitted as well as documentation of salary (including bonuses) for past two years.

* P olicy loans and withdrawals reduce the policy's cash value and death benefit and may result in a taxable event. Surrender charges may reduce the policy's cash value in early years.

16

For Agent Use Only Ł Not For Use With The Public

LIFE INSURANCE UNDERWRITING GUIDE

Underwriting Programs

Full Medical/Financial Underwriting
National Life Group has a wide range of products that are underwritten using traditional underwriting requirements such as blood profile, urinalysis specimen, paramedical exam, and EKGs. Applications requiring full medical underwriting to properly assess the mortality risk the client represents are often on larger face amounts and older age applicants. Please refer to www.NationalLife.com for the most current listing of these products.
What does the agent need to know?
NLG will review the application containing your client's financial and medical information. The information will be cross-referenced with several databases used for the risk assessment such as: Ę Medical Information Bureau (MIB) Ę Milliman Intelliscript« Prescription Data, Medical
Claims Data, and Criminal History Data Ę Motor Vehicle Report Ę Electronic Inspection Report Ę LabPiQture, providing clinical laboratory results Ę Clinical Reference Laboratory Prescription Database
What medical requirements might be requested for my client to complete?
Ę Blood profile and urinalysis specimen Ę Paramedical exam Ę Senior Assessment Ę EKG Ę Attending Physician Statement

Are there other requirements that I may need to have my client furnish?
Depending on the type of and purpose of the life insurance sale, the underwriter may request additional financial information to justify the face amount being requested. This information we request, may be in the form of: Ę Personal Financial Questionnaire Ę 2-year tax returns, W-2s, or 1099s Ę Third Party Verified Financial Statements prepared by
CPA or Tax Attorney Ę Cover letter explaining the purpose of sale and how
the total line of coverage was determined
Do you know how powerful a cover letter can be? If you have a client who is applying for insurance for reasons other than straight income replacement needs, it is best to submit a cover letter. The cover letter will tell the underwriter how the sale was made, the purpose of the sale, and the intended use of the funds and/or riders. A well-crafted cover letter helps the underwriter better understand your client's needs. If you submit an application via eApp, you can type this information in the cover letter.

Did you know? Ę An application is good for 6 months from the
application signing date Ł A Statement of Health (form 5230 for appropriate
state) will be required after 90 days of the date of last evidence (exam or health section of application) Ę Parameds and Labs are good for: Ł Ages up to 70: 12 months Ł Ages 70 and up: 6 months Ę Rewrites: A policy can be rewritten up to 120 days from the application signing date

17

For Agent Use Only Ł Not For Use With The Public

LIFE INSURANCE UNDERWRITING GUIDE

Accelerated Underwriting Products (EZ Underwriting)
National Life Group is pleased to offer accelerated underwriting to applicants. This means your client may be eligible for our best class without the need to complete medical requirements (blood profile, urinalysis, paramedical exam, and EKG).

EZ underwriting is available to applicants ages 18Ł50 applying for face amounts up to and including $3,000,000 on permanent products ($2,000,000 on term products); to applicants ages 51Ł60 applying for face amounts up to and including $1,000,000; and to applicants ages 61Ł65 applying for face amounts up to and including $250,000.

Existing coverage with National Life Group will impact the needed requirements. Please consult with your underwriter.

Please consult the product's age and face amount grid for current guidelines beginning on page 21.
Applicants Applying for the Following Face Amounts:

FlexLife

Ages 18Ł50 Up to $5M

Ages 51Ł60 Up to $3M

Ages 61Ł65 Up to $250,000

SummitLife Up to $5M Up to $3M

n/a

What does the agent need to know?
NLG will review your client's financial and medical information contained in the application, crossreferencing the information with several risk assessment databases such as: Ę Medical Information Bureau (MIB) Ę Milliman Intelliscript« Prescription Data,
Medical Claims Data, and Criminal History Data Ę LabPiQture, providing clinical laboratory results Ę Motor Vehicle Report
Do you know? Ę An application is good for 6 months from the
application signing date Ł A Statement of Health (form 5230 for appropriate
state) will be required after 90 days of the date of last evidence (health section of application) Ę Rewrites: A policy can be rewritten up to 120 days from the application to signing date.

PeakLife NL Up to $5M Up to $3M

n/a

TotalSecure BasicSecure

Up to $5M Up to $5M

Up to $3M Up to $250,000 Up to $3M Up to $250,000

Term

Up to $2M Up to $1M Up to $250,000

Expanded EZ Underwriting on permanent products for applicants with a physical exam in the past 12 months
For permanent products, EZ underwriting availability may be expanded to applicants if they have had a routine physical exam with age-appropriate screening tests completed within the last 12 months.
Applicants ages 18Ł50 applying for face amounts between $3,000,001 and including $5,000,000 and ages 51Ł60 applying for face amounts between $1,000,001 and including $3,000,000 may be eligible for our best class without the need to complete medical requirements (blood profile, urinalysis, paramedical exam, and EKG). EZ Underwriting remains available for face amounts up to and including $250,000 for applicants ages 61Ł65.

18

For Agent Use Only Ł Not For Use With The Public

LIFE INSURANCE UNDERWRITING GUIDE

Simplified Underwriting Products (RapidProtect/RapidProtect NL -- Indexed Universal Life (IUL))
National Life Group is proud to offer RapidProtect, a simplified issue IUL product with an instant underwriting decision. Your client may qualify for valuable protection using a quick and easy customer experience -- only answering a few application questions and no medical exam.
RapidProtect is available to applicants up to age 60, applying for face amounts between $50,000 and $500,000. Standard Non-Tobacco and Standard Tobacco classes are available as well as substandard Express Non-Tobacco 1 and Express Tobacco classes.
Please consult the product's age and face amount grid for current guidelines. (See NLG's website for current listing).

Applicants Applying for the Following Face Amounts:

Rate Classes

Face Amount

Ages

Standard NT

$50,000Ł$500,000 0Ł60

Express Standard NT 1

$50,000Ł$500,000 0Ł60

Standard Tobacco

$50,000Ł$500,000 18Ł60

Express Standard Tobacco

$50,000Ł$500,000 18Ł60

Table ratings and flat extras are not available. ABRs are not available with Express Standard classes.

What does the agent need to know?
NLG will review your client's financial and medical information contained in the application, crossreferencing the information with several risk assessment databases such as:
Ę Medical Information Bureau (MIB) Ę Milliman Intelliscript« Prescription Data,
Medical Claims Data, and Criminal History Data
Ę Motor Vehicle Report

Potential Underwriting Outcomes
Not all medical conditions or non-medical conditions will qualify for RapidProtect. The following lists of impairments represent examples that will not qualify and other impairments that will qualify. Neither list is intended to be all-inclusive and specific details of each case will determine final eligibility.

Non-Qualifying Conditions/Issues
Applications should not be written on persons with the following impairments/issues. This list is not intended to be all inclusive.
Medical Conditions

ALS (Lou Gehrig's Disease) Alcoholism Alzheimer's Disease or Dementia Autism Cancer (except Basal Cell Carcinoma)
Cardiac arrhythmias Coronary artery disease/heart attack Chronic Kidney Disease Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) Cirrhosis of the liver

Congestive Heart Failure Crohn's Disease Diabetes, Type 1 Dialysis Diagnostic testing in the last 3 months except for colonoscopy, pap smear, or mammogram Down's syndrome Heart valve disorders HIV/AIDS Hospital admission in past 12 months (except childbirth) Intellectual Disability

Organ Transplant Pacemaker/Defibrillator Parkinson's Disease Paralysis Peripheral Vascular Disease
Polycystic Kidney Disease Sarcoidosis Stroke (CVA or TIA) Suicide attempt
Ulcerative Colitis

Non-Medical Risks

Driver's license currently suspended or revoked

Single misdemeanor conviction with less than 1 year since the end of probation

Single DUI within the past year

Multiple misdemeanor convictions with the last conviction less than 7 years ago

Multiple DUIs within the past 5 years

Disability (receiving SSDI or DI due to mental health or other medical issues)

Criminal charges pending

Violent criminal activity

Any felony conviction

19

For Agent Use Only Ł Not For Use With The Public

LIFE INSURANCE UNDERWRITING GUIDE
Qualifying Conditions/Issues
The following impairments may qualify for coverage under RapidProtect. This list is not intended to be all-inclusive.
Medical Conditions Possible eligibility is presented assuming the applicant's best possible condition (treatment, control, etc.) without complications. Specific case details will dictate final rating.
Anemia, mild iron-deficient (fully investigated and resolved) Anxiety, mild (stable & well-controlled  6 months, depends on age) Asthma, mild (depends on age, attacks, medications) Back disorder/pain, mild (non-disabling, depends on use/amount of opiods for control) Basal Cell Carcinoma Bronchiectasis, mild (no surgery or complications) Cerebral Palsy (age > 8 years, no epilepsy or intellectual disability) Cystitis (fully recovered, no complications) Depression, mild (stable & well-controlled  6 months, depends on age) Diabetes, Type 2 (well controlled, without complications) Epilepsy (depends on age, treatment) Fibromyalgia, mild (no current narcotic medication use) Gall bladder disorder (fully recovered > 3 months, no complications) Gastric bypass (varies based on procedure, > 6 months since surgery, no complications) Gestational diabetes, not currently pregnant (no complications) Glaucoma (corrected, no complications) Gout, mild (only NSAID use, no physical impairments or complications) Hepatitis B, chronic (treated and resolved) Hepatitis C, chronic (treated and resolved) Hypertension (well controlled) Hyperthyroid (fully investigated, well controlled & stable, no complications) Hypothyroid (well controlled and stable, no complications) Joint replacement (fully recovered, > 3 months since surgery, no complications) Lupus, systemic (mild with no complications) Lupus, discoid (skin only; in remission, no steroid use) Meningitis (fully recovered > 6 months, no complications) Migraine headaches (mild, fully investigated & stable with no complications) Osteoarthritis, mild (non-disabiling, no complications or opiod use for treatment) Pregnancy, current (no complications - past or present) Prostatic hypertrophy, benign (minor symptoms, no obstruction nor complications) Prostatitis (mild symptoms, no complications) Raynaud's disease (full recovery, > 2 years since last complication, no complications) Rheumatoid arthritis (no disability -- depends on age) Rheumatic fever (no murmur, heart damage or other complications) Sleep Apnea (consistent CPAP use, no complications) Tuberculosis (fully investigated, complete recovery with no complications nor residuals) Varicose veins (located in leg with no complications)

20

For Agent Use Only Ł Not For Use With The Public

LIFE INSURANCE UNDERWRITING GUIDE

Life Underwriting Requirements

SummitLife/Advanced Markets IUL
(SummitLife)

Underwriting Amount $1,000,000 $1,000,001 Ł $2,000,000 $2,000,001 Ł $3,000,000 $3,000,001 Ł $5,000,000 $5,000,001 Ł $10,000,000 $10,000,001 & Up

0Ł17 A
A/APS A/APS A/APS A/APS A/APS

18Ł30 A A A D
D/APS D/APS

31Ł40 A A A D
D/APS D/APS

Issue Ages1

41Ł50

51Ł60

A

A

A

D

A/APS

D/APS

D/APS

D/APS

D/APS

D/APS

D/APS

D/APS

61Ł65 D
D/APS D/APS D/APS D/APS D/APS

66Ł69 D
D/APS D/APS D/APS D/APS D/APS

70+ ME/APS ME/APS ME/APS ME/APS ME/APS ME/APS

Category/Medical Requirements

Available Rate Classes2,3

A Ł Application D Ł Application, Exam, Blood Profile, Urine M Ł Application, Exam, Blood Profile, Urine, Mature
Assessment ME Ł A pplication, Exam, Blood Profile, Urine, EKG, Mature
Assessment APS Ł Attending Physician Statement
Financial Underwriting Requirements
$2,000,001+ $5,000,001+ $10,000,001+

Rate Classes Elite Preferred NT Select NT Standard NT Express Standard NT 1 Express Standard NT 2 Preferred Tobacco Standard Tobacco Express Standard Tobacco
Substandard Ratings

Face Amount* All Face Amounts All Face Amounts All Face Amounts All Face Amounts Total Face  $2M Total Face  $2M All Face Amounts All Face Amounts Total Face  $2M

Ages1 18Ł75 18Ł85 18Ł85 0Ł85 0Ł85 18Ł85 18Ł85 18Ł85 18Ł85

EI

Non-Tobacco

CFQ

Ł

Substandard Ratings Permanent Flat extras

Total Face  $2M Total Face > $2M All rate classes All rate classes

IV TPV

Ł Ł

Ł
(age 70+)

(age 18+)

Temporary Flat extras

Available with Standard NT and Express classes

Available with Standard NT and/or with table ratings

EI CFQ

E-Inspection Confidential Financial Questionnaire (Form 1392)

Table Ratings up to 200% (table B to D)

Available with Express Standard
NT 1 only

Available with Standard NT

IV TPV

Income Verification (see page 12) Third Party-Verification Financials (see page 12)

Table Ratings 225%Ł300% (table E to H)

Available with Express Standard
NT 2 only

and temporary flat extras

* Minimum Face $1,000,000 1 Age Nearest Birthday 2 See product specific information for rate classes and ages available 3 See product specifications for applicable juvenile rates

Tobacco

Substandard Ratings

Total Face  $2M Total Face > $2M

Permanent Flat extras

All rate classes All rate classes

Temporary Flat extras

Available with Standard
Tobacco and Express Tobacco
classes

Available with Standard Tobacco
and/or with table ratings

Table Ratings up to 200% (table B to D)

Available with Express Standard
Tobacco only

Available with Standard
Tobacco and temporary flat extras

Table Ratings 225%Ł300% (table E to H)

Not Available

Not Available

21

For Agent Use Only Ł Not For Use With The Public

LIFE INSURANCE UNDERWRITING GUIDE

Life Underwriting Requirements

PeakLife/Advanced Markets IUL
(PeakLife NL)

Underwriting Amount $1,000,000 $1,000,001 Ł $2,000,000 $2,000,001 Ł $3,000,000 $3,000,001 Ł $5,000,000 $5,000,001 Ł $10,000,000 $10,000,001 & Up

18Ł30 A A A D
D/APS D/APS

31Ł40 A A A D
D/APS D/APS

41Ł50 A A
A/APS D/APS D/APS D/APS

Issue Ages1 51Ł60 A D D/APS D/APS D/APS D/APS

61Ł65 D
D/APS D/APS D/APS D/APS D/APS

66Ł69 D
D/APS D/APS D/APS D/APS D/APS

70+ ME/APS ME/APS ME/APS ME/APS ME/APS ME/APS

Category/Medical Requirements

Available Rate Classes2

A Ł Application D Ł Application, Exam, Blood Profile, Urine M Ł A pplication, Exam, Blood Profile, Urine, Mature
Assessment ME Ł A pplication, Exam, Blood Profile, Urine, EKG, Mature
Assessment APS Ł Attending Physician Statement
Financial Underwriting Requirements
$2,000,001+ $5,000,001+ $10,000,001+

Rate Classes Elite Preferred NT Select NT Standard NT Express Standard NT 1 Express Standard NT 2 Preferred Tobacco Standard Tobacco Express Standard Tobacco
Substandard Ratings

Face Amount* All Face Amounts All Face Amounts All Face Amounts All Face Amounts Total Face  $2M Total Face  $2M All Face Amounts All Face Amounts Total Face  $2M

Ages1 18Ł75 18Ł85 18Ł85 18Ł85 18Ł85 18Ł85 18Ł85 18Ł85 18Ł85

EI

Non-Tobacco

CFQ

Ł

Substandard Ratings Permanent Flat extras

Total Face  $2M Total Face > $2M All rate classes All rate classes

IV TPV

Ł Ł

Ł
(age 70+)

(age 18+)

Temporary Flat extras

Available with Standard NT and Express classes

Available with Standard NT and/or with table ratings

EI CFQ

E-Inspection Confidential Financial Questionnaire (Form 1392)

Table Ratings up to 200% (table B to D)

Available with Express Standard
NT 1 only

Available with Standard NT

IV TPV

Income Verification (see page 12) Third Party-Verification Financials (see page 12)

Table Ratings 225%Ł300% (table E to H)

Available with Express Standard
NT 2 only

and temporary flat extras

* Minimum Face $1,000,000 1 Age Nearest Birthday 2 See product specific information for rate classes and ages available

Tobacco

Substandard Ratings

Total Face  $2M Total Face > $2M

Permanent Flat extras

All rate classes All rate classes

Temporary Flat extras

Available with Standard
Tobacco and Express Tobacco
classes

Available with Standard Tobacco
and/or with table ratings

Table Ratings up to 200% (table B to D)

Available with Express Standard
Tobacco only

Available with Standard
Tobacco and temporary flat extras

Table Ratings 225%Ł300% (table E to H)

Not Available

Not Available

22

For Agent Use Only Ł Not For Use With The Public

LIFE INSURANCE UNDERWRITING GUIDE

Life Underwriting Requirements

FlexLife and FlexLife NL (Available in NY only)

Underwriting Amount Through $250,000 $250,001 Ł $1,000,000 $1,000,001 Ł $2,000,000 $2,000,001 Ł $3,000,000 $3,000,001 Ł $5,000,000 $5,000,001 Ł $10,000,000 $10,000,001 & Up

0Ł17 A A
A/APS A/APS A/APS A/APS A/APS

18Ł30 A A A A D
D/APS D/APS

31Ł40 A A A A D
D/APS D/APS

Issue Ages1 41Ł50
A A A A/APS D/APS D/APS D/APS

51Ł60 A A D
D/APS D/APS D/APS D/APS

61Ł65 A D
D/APS D/APS D/APS D/APS D/APS

66Ł69 D D
D/APS D/APS D/APS D/APS D/APS

70+ ME/APS ME/APS ME/APS ME/APS ME/APS ME/APS ME/APS

Category/Medical Requirements
A Ł Application D Ł Application, Exam, Blood Profile, Urine M Ł A pplication, Exam, Blood Profile, Urine, Mature
Assessment ME Ł Application, Exam, Blood Profile, Urine, EKG, Mature
Assessment APS Ł Attending Physician Statement

Financial Underwriting Requirements

$2,000,001+ $5,000,001+ $10,000,001+

EI

CFQ

Ł

IV

Ł

Ł

TPV

Ł

(age 70+)

(age 18+)

EI

E-Inspection

CFQ

Confidential Financial Questionnaire (Form 1392)

IV

Income Verification (see page 12)

TPV

Third Party-Verification Financials (see page 12)

1 Issue Age Nearest Birthday 2 200% rating added to Standard NT for tobacco users under age 18 * $2M maximum limit in New York

Available Rate Classes2

Rate Classes Elite Preferred NT Select NT Standard NT Express Standard NT 1 Express Standard NT 2 Preferred Tobacco Standard Tobacco Express Standard Tobacco

Face Amount* All Face Amounts All Face Amounts All Face Amounts All Face Amounts Total Face  $3M* Total Face  $3M* All Face Amounts All Face Amounts Total Face  $3M*

Ages1 18Ł75 18Ł85 18Ł85 0Ł85 0Ł85 18Ł85 18Ł85 18Ł85 18Ł85

Substandard Ratings

Substandard Ratings Permanent Flat extras
Temporary Flat extras
Table Ratings up to 200% (table B to D)
Table Ratings 225%Ł 300% (table E to H)

Non-Tobacco

Total Face  $3M* Total Face > $3M*

All rate classes All rate classes

Available with Standard NT and Express

Available with Standard NT and/or with

classes

table ratings

Available with

Express Standard NT 1 only
Available with Express Standard
NT 2 only

Available with Standard NT and temporary
flat extras

Tobacco

Substandard Ratings Total Face  $3M* Total Face > $3M*

Permanent Flat extras

All rate classes All rate classes

Temporary Flat extras

Available with Standard
Tobacco and Express Tobacco
classes

Available with Standard Tobacco
and/or with table ratings

Table Ratings up to 200% (table B to D)

Available with Express Standard
Tobacco only

Available with Standard
Tobacco and temporary flat extras

Table Ratings 225%Ł300% (table E to H)

Not Available

Not Available

23

For Agent Use Only Ł Not For Use With The Public

LIFE INSURANCE UNDERWRITING GUIDE

Life Underwriting Requirements

BasicSecure, BasicSecure NL, TotalSecure, and TotalSecure NL

Underwriting Amount Through $250,000 $250,001 Ł $1,000,000 $1,000,001 Ł $2,000,000 $2,000,001 Ł $3,000,000 $3,000,001 Ł $5,000,000 $5,000,001 Ł $10,000,000 $10,000,001 & Up

0Ł17 A A
A/APS A/APS A/APS A/APS A/APS

18Ł30 A A A A D
D/APS D/APS

31Ł40 A A A A D
D/APS D/APS

Issue Ages1 41Ł50
A A A A/APS D/APS D/APS D/APS

51Ł60 A A D
D/APS D/APS D/APS D/APS

61Ł65 A D
D/APS D/APS D/APS D/APS D/APS

66Ł69 D D
D/APS D/APS D/APS D/APS D/APS

70+ ME/APS ME/APS ME/APS ME/APS ME/APS ME/APS ME/APS

Category/Medical Requirements
A Ł Application D Ł Application, Exam, Blood Profile, Urine M Ł A pplication, Exam, Blood Profile, Urine, Mature
Assessment ME Ł A pplication, Exam, Blood Profile, Urine, EKG, Mature
Assessment APS Ł Attending Physician Statement

Financial Underwriting Requirements

$2,000,001+ $5,000,001+ $10,000,001+

EI

CFQ

Ł

IV

Ł

Ł

TPV

Ł

(age 70+)

(age 18+)

EI

E-Inspection

CFQ

Confidential Financial Questionnaire (Form 1392)

IV

Income Verification (see page 12)

TPV

Third Party-Verification Financials (see page 12)

1 Issue Age Nearest Birthday 2 200% rating added to Standard NT for tobacco users under age 18

Available Rate Classes2

Rate Classes Elite Preferred NT Select NT Standard NT Express Standard NT 1 Express Standard NT 2 Preferred Tobacco Standard Tobacco Express Standard Tobacco

Face Amount* All Face Amounts All Face Amounts All Face Amounts All Face Amounts Total Face  $2M Total Face  $2M All Face Amounts All Face Amounts Total Face  $2M

Ages1 18Ł75 18Ł85 18Ł85 0Ł85 0Ł85 18Ł85 18Ł85 18Ł85 18Ł85

Substandard Ratings

Substandard Ratings Permanent Flat extras
Temporary Flat extras
Table Ratings up to 200% (table B to D)
Table Ratings 225%Ł 300% (table E to H)

Non-Tobacco
Total Face  $2M
All rate classes
Available with Standard NT and Express
classes
Available with Express Standard
NT 1 only
Available with Express Standard
NT 2 only

Total Face > $2M All rate classes Available with Standard NT
and/or with table ratings
Available with Standard NT and temporary
flat extras

Substandard Ratings Permanent Flat extras
Temporary Flat extras
Table Ratings up to 200% (table B to D)
Table Ratings 225%Ł300% (table E to H)

Tobacco Total Face  $2M All rate classes
Available with Standard
Tobacco and Express Tobacco
classes
Available with Express Standard
Tobacco only
Not Available

Total Face > $2M All rate classes Available with
Standard Tobacco and/or with table ratings Available with Standard Tobacco and temporary flat extras
Not Available

24

For Agent Use Only Ł Not For Use With The Public

LIFE INSURANCE UNDERWRITING GUIDE

Life Underwriting Requirements

SurvivorLife and SurvivorLife NL SIUL

Underwriting Amount $250,000 Ł $1,000,000 $1,000,001 Ł $2,000,000 $2,000,001 Ł $3,000,000 $3,000,001 Ł $5,000,000 $5,000,001 Ł $10,000,000 $10,000,001 and up

0Ł17 A
A/APS A/APS A/APS A/APS A/APS

18Ł30 D D D D
D/APS D/APS

31Ł40 D D D D
D/APS D/APS

Issue Ages1 41Ł50
D D D/APS D/APS D/APS D/APS

51Ł60 D D
D/APS D/APS D/APS D/APS

61Ł65 D
D/APS D/APS D/APS D/APS D/APS

66Ł69 D
D/APS D/APS D/APS D/APS D/APS

70+ ME/APS ME/APS ME/APS ME/APS ME/APS ME/APS

Category/Medical Requirements
A Ł Application D Ł Application, Exam, Blood Profile, Urine M Ł A pplication, Exam, Blood Profile, Urine, Mature
Assessment ME Ł A pplication, Exam, Blood Profile, Urine, EKG, Mature
Assessment APS Ł Attending Physician Statement
Ę This product will be available under full medical underwriting, required of both insureds (refer to Requirement Chart)
Ę Application is not available through eApp process. Paper only

Financial Underwriting Requirements

$2,000,001+ $5,000,001+ $10,000,001+

EI

CFQ

Ł

IV

Ł

Ł

TPV

Ł

(age 70+)

(age 18+)

EI

E-Inspection

CFQ

Confidential Financial Questionnaire (Form 1392)

IV

Income Verification (see page 12)

TPV

Third Party-Verification Financials (see page 12)

Available Rate Classes
Rate Classes Elite Preferred NT Select NT Standard NT Preferred Tobacco Standard Tobacco Uninsurable

Face Amount All Face Amounts All Face Amounts All Face Amounts All Face Amounts All Face Amounts All Face Amounts All Face Amounts

Ages1 18Ł75 18Ł85 18Ł85 0Ł85 18Ł85 18Ł85 0Ł85

Substandard Ratings

150% Ł Table B 175% Ł Table C 200% Ł Table D

225% Ł Table E 250% Ł Table F 300% Ł Table H

Ages 18Ł69: All substandard ratings are available.

Ages 0Ł17 & 70Ł75:

Only Tables B, C, & D are available2

Ages 76Ł85: Must be rated Standard or better

If one life is uninsurable, the other must be rated 200% or better.

Ę Express classes are not available.
Ę Table ratings and permanent flat extras are available with all rate classifications. Temporary flat extras are available with Standard classes.

1 Issue Age Nearest Birthday

2 200% rating added to Standard NT for tobacco users under age 18

25

For Agent Use Only Ł Not For Use With The Public

LIFE INSURANCE UNDERWRITING GUIDE

Life Underwriting Requirements

Term LSW and Term NL Life

Underwriting Amount Through $250,000 $250,001 Ł $1,000,000 $1,000,001 Ł $2,000,000 $2,000,001 Ł $5,000,000 $5,000,001 Ł $10,000,000 $10,000,001 and up

18Ł30 A A A D
D/APS D/APS

31Ł40 A A A D
D/APS D/APS

41Ł50 A A A
D/APS D/APS D/APS

Issue Ages1 51Ł60 A A D D/APS D/APS D/APS

61Ł65 A D
D/APS D/APS D/APS D/APS

66Ł69 D D
D/APS D/APS D/APS D/APS

70+ ME/APS ME/APS ME/APS ME/APS ME/APS ME/APS

Available Rate Classes

Issue Ages1

Rate Classes

Face Amount

ART

10 YR

15 YR

20 YR

30 YR

Elite

All Face Amounts

18Ł85

18Ł75

18Ł75

18Ł70

18Ł55

Preferred NT

All Face Amounts

18Ł85

18Ł75

18Ł75

18Ł70

18Ł55

Standard NT

All Face Amounts

18Ł85

18Ł75

18Ł75

18Ł70

18Ł55

Express Standard NT 1

Total Face  $2M

18Ł85

18Ł75

18Ł75

18Ł70

18Ł55

Express Standard NT 2

Total Face  $2M

18Ł85

18Ł75

18Ł75

18Ł65

18Ł55

Preferred Tobacco

All Face Amounts

18Ł85

18Ł75

18Ł70

18Ł65

18Ł50

Standard Tobacco

All Face Amounts

18Ł85

18Ł75

18Ł70

18Ł65

18Ł50

Express Standard Tobacco

Total Face  $2M

18Ł85

18Ł75

18Ł70

18Ł65

18Ł50

Category/Medical Requirements

Substandard Ratings

A Ł Application
D Ł Application, Exam, Blood Profile, Urine
M Ł A pplication, Exam, Blood Profile, Urine, Mature Assessment
ME Ł Application, Exam, Blood Profile, Urine, EKG, Mature Assessment
APS Ł A ttending Physician Statement

Financial Underwriting Requirements

$2,000,001+ $5,000,001+ $10,000,001+

EI

CFQ

Ł

IV

Ł

Ł

TPV

Ł

(age 70+)

(age 18+)

EI

E-Inspection

CFQ

Confidential Financial Questionnaire (Form 1392)

IV

Income Verification (see page 12)

TPV

Third Party-Verification Financials (see page 12)

1 Issue Age Nearest Birthday

Non-Tobacco

Substandard Ratings

Total Face  $2M Total Face > $2M

Permanent Flat extras

All rate classes All rate classes

Temporary Flat extras

Available with Standard NT and Express classes

Available with Standard NT and/or with table ratings

Table Ratings up to 200% (table B to D)
Table Ratings 225%Ł300% (table E to H)

Available with Express Standard
NT 1 only
Available with Express Standard
NT 2 only

Available with Standard NT and temporary
flat extras

Tobacco

Substandard Ratings

Total Face  $2M Total Face > $2M

Permanent Flat extras

All rate classes All rate classes

Temporary Flat extras

Available with Standard
Tobacco and Express Tobacco
classes

Available with Standard Tobacco
and/or with table ratings

Table Ratings up to 200% (table B to D)

Available with Express Standard
Tobacco only

Available with Standard
Tobacco and temporary flat extras

Table Ratings 225%Ł300% (table E to H)

Not Available

Not Available

26

For Agent Use Only Ł Not For Use With The Public

LIFE INSURANCE UNDERWRITING GUIDE

Underwriting Rate Classes Explained

Elite Preferred Non-Tobacco
See guidelines on next pages.

Preferred Non-Tobacco
See guidelines on next pages.

Select Non-Tobacco
Offered for those clients who do not meet all criteria for preferred but meet the special standard "plus" criteria for this well-priced non-tobacco/non-nicotine class.

Standard Non-Tobacco
Offers competitive rates for applicants who are standard risk and have not used tobacco or nicotine products within the past 12 months. If additional table ratings are applicable, use this rate class as the platform for non-tobacco class illustrations with ratings.

Express Standard Non-Tobacco 1
Available to applicants who do not use products containing tobacco or nicotine that qualify with rating of four tables or less who would otherwise be substandard. Limited availability by product.

Table Ratings1 converted to Percent Ratings

Table 2 Table 3 Table 4 Table 5 Table 6 Table 8

Table B Table C Table D Table E Table F Table H

150% 175% 200% 225% 250% 300%

Ratings are illustrated using Standard or Verified Standard class as the platform for Non-Smoker clients or using Standard Tobacco class as the platform for tobacco users. Some products may show Standard Tobacco vs. Standard Smoker. Please refer to product guides for specific rate classes available.

Express Standard Non-Tobacco 2
Available to applicants who do not use products containing tobacco or nicotine that qualify with rating of 225% to 300%. Living Benefits and Lifetime Income Benefit Riders are not available. Limited availability by product.
Preferred Tobacco
Available to applicants who use products containing tobacco or nicotine but meet all the other preferred guidelines (see following pages).

Standard Tobacco
Applicants who use tobacco or nicotine products that do not otherwise meet the preferred guidelines will use this rate class. If additional table ratings are applicable, use this rate class as the platform for tobacco class illustrations with ratings.

Express Standard Tobacco
Available to tobacco users that rate four tables or less. Limited availability by product.
Tobacco Use Includes*

Betel Nut Chewing Tobacco Cigarettes Cigars E-Cigarettes Hookah

Nicotine Gum Nicotine Patch Nicotine Pouches (ZynTM) Pipe Vaping

*Tobacco rates may be applicable for marijuana use depending on delivery method and frequency of use.

1 See product-specific tables 27

For Agent Use Only Ł Not For Use With The Public

LIFE INSURANCE UNDERWRITING GUIDE

Accelerated Elite/Preferred/Select Criteria (Permanent Products)

EZ Underwriting

Elite
Non-Tobacco

Preferred
Non-Tobacco and Tobacco

Select
Non-Tobacco

Tobacco or No use of tobacco or nicotine of Nicotine Use any kind within last 60 months.

Non Tobacco: No use of tobacco or nicotine of any kind within last 36 months.1 Tobacco: Use of qualifying tobacco products are allowed.1

No use of tobacco or nicotine of any kind within last 12 months.

Family History No family history (parents or siblings) No family history (parents or siblings) No family history (parents or siblings)

of death from coronary heart disease of death from coronary heart disease of death from coronary heart disease

or cancer prior to age 65.

or cancer prior to age 60.

or cancer prior to age 60.

Health History

Standard risks with no personal health history of coronary artery disease, hepatitis B or C, diabetes, melanoma, or cancer (except skin cancer in situ).

Standard risks with no personal health history of coronary artery disease, hepatitis B or C, diabetes, melanoma, or cancer (except skin cancer in situ).

Standard risks with no current borderline medical problems. No currently ratable medical history.

Driving History

No reckless driving (includes no excessive speed) or alcohol-related moving violation within 5 years, no license suspension within 3 years, and no more than one moving violation within last 3 years.

No reckless driving or alcoholrelated moving violation within 5 years, no license suspension within 3 years, and no more than two moving violations within last 3 years.2

No reckless driving or alcohol-related moving violation within 5 years, no license suspension within 3 years, and no more than three moving violations within last 3 years.

Prescription Drug History

No medications in past 5 years for heart disease, cancer, mood disorders, rheumatoid arthritis, kidney or liver disease, hepatitis, diabetes, dementia, alcohol or drug abuse, lung disease, autoimmune disease, vascular disease, and neurological disease. (One hypertensive medication allowed, and one medication for cholesterol is allowed.)

No medications in past 5 years for heart disease, cancer, depression, rheumatoid arthritis, liver disease, hepatitis, diabetes, dementia, alcohol or drug abuse, lung disease, autoimmune disease, vascular disease and neurological disease. (One hypertensive medication allowed and one medication for cholesterol is allowed.)

No medications in past 5 years for heart disease, cancer, depression, rheumatoid arthritis, liver disease, hepatitis, diabetes, dementia, alcohol or drug abuse, lung disease, autoimmune disease, vascular disease and neurological disease. (One hypertensive medication allowed, and one medication for cholesterol is allowed.)

Aviation/ Avocation

No aviation, no ratable hazardous avocation or occupation. Commercial pilots for major U.S. carriers permitted.

No aviation, no ratable hazardous avocation or occupation. Commercial pilots for major U.S. carriers permitted.

No ratable aviation, hazardous avocation or occupation.

Alcohol/Drug No history of drug or alcohol abuse No history of drug or alcohol abuse No ratable history of drug or

or treatment at any time.

or treatment within last 10 years. alcohol abuse.

BMI

> 18.5 and < 27.1

> 18.5 and < 29.9

> 18.5 and < 32.7

1 See "Tobacco Use Includes" section on page 27 2 For ages 18Ł25 if one moving violation results in points assessed by underwriting manual, preferred will not be allowed.

28

For Agent Use Only Ł Not For Use With The Public

LIFE INSURANCE UNDERWRITING GUIDE
Fully Underwritten Elite/Preferred/Select Criteria (Permanent Products)1

Citizenship

Elite Preferred
Non-Tobacco
U.S. Resident.*

Preferred
Non-Tobacco and Tobacco
U.S. Resident.

Select
Non-Tobacco
U.S. Resident.

Tobacco or Nicotine Products2

No use of tobacco or nicotinecontaining products of any kind within the last 60 months. Current lab testing negative for nicotine.

Non Tobacco: No use of tobacco or nicotine containing products3 within last 36 months. Current lab testing negative for nicotine. Tobacco: Use of qualifying tobacco products are allowed.3

No use of tobacco or nicotinecontaining products3 of any kind within the past 12 months. Current lab testing negative for nicotine.

Health

Standard risks with no current borderline medical problems. No personal health history of coronary artery disease, hepatitis B or C, diabetes, melanoma, or cancer (except skin cancer in situ).

Standard risks with no current borderline medical problems. No personal health history of coronary artery disease, hepatitis B or C, diabetes, melanoma, or cancer (except skin cancer in situ).

Standard risk with no current borderline medical problems. No currently ratable medical history.

Alcohol/ Drugs

No history of drug or alcohol abuse or treatment at any time, and no current use of drugs.

No history of drug or alcohol abuse No ratable history of drug or or treatment within the last 10 years, alcohol abuse. and no current use of drugs.

Aviation/ Avocation

No aviation, no ratable hazardous avocation or occupation. This does not include major commercial airline pilots or holiday scuba diving.

No aviation, no ratable hazardous avocation or occupation. This does not include major commercial airline pilots or holiday scuba diving.

No ratable aviation, hazardous avocation or occupation.

Family History

No parental family history of death from coronary artery disease or cancer prior to age 65. Criteria does not apply if applicant has reached the age of 65 or for gender-specific cancers where the applicant is the opposite gender.

No parental family history of death from coronary artery disease or cancer prior to age 60. Criteria does not apply if applicant has reached the age of 60 or for gender-specific cancers where the applicant is the opposite gender.

Parental family history of no more than one death from coronary artery disease or cancer prior to age 60. Criteria does not apply if applicant has reached the age of 60 or for gender-specific cancers where the applicant is the opposite gender.

Blood Pressure

Current blood pressure with a 12-month average reading of 135/85 or better. Blood pressure treatment is acceptable if treated by only one drug.

Current blood pressure with a 12-month average reading of 140/90 or better. Blood pressure treatment is acceptable if treated by only one drug.

Current blood pressure with a 12-month average reading of 150/90 or better.

Cholesterol

Current cholesterol/HDL ratio of 4.5 or less, or 5.0 or less for issue ages 65 and up. Cholesterol must also be 260mg/dl or less. Cholesterol treatment is acceptable if treated by only one drug and cholesterol/HDL ratio is maintained for 12 months.

Current cholesterol/HDL ratio of 5.5 or less, or 6.0 or less for issue ages 65 and up. Cholesterol must also be 280mg/dl or less. Cholesterol treatment is acceptable if treated by only one drug and cholesterol/HDL ratio is maintained for 12 months.

Current cholesterol/HDL ratio of 6.5 or less, or 7.0 or less for issue ages 65 and up. Cholesterol must also be 300mg/dl or less. Cholesterol treatment is acceptable if treated by only one drug and cholesterol/HDL ratio is maintained for 12 months.

Driving History

No reckless driving or alcohol-related moving violations within five years, no license suspension within three years, and no more than one moving violation within the last three years.

No reckless driving or alcoholrelated moving violations within five years, no license suspension within three years, and no more than two moving violations within the last three years.

No reckless driving or alcohol-related moving violations within five years, no license suspension within three years, and no more than three moving violations within the last three years.

* Some Foreign Nationals may qualify for best class. Please refer to Foreign National guidelines. 1 Please refer to the National Life and LSW product guides for classes available. 2 Not applicable for Preferred Tobacco class. 3 See "Tobacco Use Includes" section on page 27.

29

For Agent Use Only Ł Not For Use With The Public

LIFE INSURANCE UNDERWRITING GUIDE

Accelerated Elite/Preferred/Select Criteria (Term Products)

EZ Underwriting

Elite
Non-Tobacco

Preferred
Non-Tobacco and Tobacco

Select
Non-Tobacco

Tobacco or No use of tobacco or nicotine of Nicotine Use any kind within last 60 months.

Non Tobacco: No use of tobacco or nicotine of any kind within last 60 months.2 Tobacco: Use of qualifying tobacco products are allowed.2

No use of tobacco or nicotine of any kind within last 36 months.

Family History No family history (parents or siblings) of coronary heart disease or cancer prior to age 65.

No family history (parents or siblings) of death from coronary heart disease or cancer prior to age 65.

No family history (parents or siblings) of death from coronary heart disease or cancer prior to age 60.

Health History

Standard risks with no personal health history of coronary artery disease, hepatitis B or C, diabetes, melanoma, or cancer (except skin cancer in situ).

Standard risks with no personal health history of coronary artery disease, hepatitis B or C, diabetes, melanoma, or cancer (except skin cancer in situ).

Standard risks with no personal health history of coronary artery disease, hepatitis B or C, diabetes, melanoma, or cancer (except skin cancer in situ).

Driving History

No reckless driving (includes no excessive speed) or alcohol-related moving violation within 5 years, no license suspension within 3 years, and no moving violation within last 3 years.

No reckless driving (includes no excessive speed) or alcohol-related moving violation within 5 years, no license suspension within 3 years, and no more than one moving violation within last 3 years.1

No reckless driving or alcohol-related moving violation within 5 years, no license suspension within 3 years, and no more than two moving violations within last 3 years.

Prescription Drug History

No medications in past 5 years for heart disease, cancer, mood disorders, rheumatoid arthritis, kidney or liver disease, hepatitis, diabetes, dementia, alcohol or drug abuse, lung disease, autoimmune disease, vascular disease, hypertension, cholesterol treatment, and/or neurological disease.

No medications in past 5 years for heart disease, cancer, mood disorders, rheumatoid arthritis, kidney or liver disease, hepatitis, diabetes, dementia, alcohol or drug abuse, lung disease, autoimmune disease, vascular disease and/ or neurological disease. (One hypertensive medication allowed and one medication for cholesterol is allowed.)

No medications in past 5 years for heart disease, cancer, mood disorders, rheumatoid arthritis, kidney or liver disease, hepatitis, diabetes, dementia, alcohol or drug abuse, lung disease, autoimmune disease, vascular disease and/or neurological disease. (One hypertensive medication allowed and one medication for cholesterol is allowed.)

Aviation/ Avocation

No aviation, no ratable hazardous avocation or occupation. Commercial pilots for major US carriers permitted.

No aviation, no ratable hazardous avocation or occupation. Commercial pilots for major US carriers permitted.

No aviation, no ratable hazardous avocation or occupation. Commercial pilots for major US carriers permitted.

Alcohol/Drug No history of drug or alcohol abuse No history of drug or alcohol abuse No history of drug or alcohol abuse or

or treatment at any time.

or treatment at any time.

treatment within last 10 years.

BMI

> 18.5 and < 24.9

> 18.5 and < 27.1

> 18.5 and < 29.9

1 For ages 18Ł25, if one moving violation results in points assessed by underwriting manual, preferred will not be allowed. 2 See "Tobacco Use Includes" section on page 27.

30

For Agent Use Only Ł Not For Use With The Public

LIFE INSURANCE UNDERWRITING GUIDE
Fully Underwritten Elite/Preferred/Select Criteria (Term Products)1

Elite Preferred
Non-Tobacco

Preferred
Non-Tobacco and Tobacco

Select
Non-Tobacco

Citizenship U.S. Resident.*

U.S. Resident.

U.S. Resident.

Tobacco or Nicotine Products1,2

No use of tobacco or nicotinecontaining products of any kind within the last 60 months. Current lab testing negative for nicotine.

Non Tobacco: No use of tobacco or nicotine containing products3 within last 60 months. Current lab testing negative for nicotine. Tobacco: Use of qualifying tobacco products are allowed.3

No use of tobacco or nicotinecontaining products of any kind within the past 36 months. Current lab testing negative for nicotine.

Health History

Standard risks with no current borderline medical problems. No personal health history of coronary artery disease, hepatitis B or C, diabetes, melanoma, or cancer (except skin cancer in situ).

Standard risks with no current borderline medical problems. No personal health history of coronary artery disease, hepatitis B or C, diabetes, melanoma, or cancer (except skin cancer in situ).

Standard risk with no current borderline medical problems. No personal health history of coronary artery disease, hepatitis B or C, diabetes, melanoma, or cancer (except skin cancer in situ).

Alcohol/ Drugs

No history of drug or alcohol abuse or treatment at any time, and no current use of drugs.

No history of drug or alcohol abuse or treatment at any time, and no current use of drugs.

No history of drug or alcohol abuse or treatment within the last 10 years, and no current use of drugs.

Aviation/ Avocation

No aviation, no ratable hazardous avocation or occupation. This does not include major commercial airline pilots or holiday scuba diving.

No aviation, no ratable hazardous avocation or occupation. This does not include major commercial airline pilots or holiday scuba diving.

No aviation, no ratable hazardous avocation or occupation. This does not include major commercial airline pilots or holiday scuba diving.

Family History

No parental family history of coronary artery disease or cancer prior to age 65. Criteria does not apply if applicant has reached the age of 65 or for gender-specific cancers where the applicant is the opposite gender.

No parental family history of death from coronary artery disease or cancer prior to age 65. Criteria does not apply if applicant has reached the age of 65 or for gender-specific cancers where the applicant is the opposite gender.

No parental family history of death from coronary artery disease or cancer prior to age 60. Criteria does not apply if applicant has reached the age of 60 or for gender-specific cancers where the applicant is the opposite gender.

Blood Pressure

Current blood pressure with a 12-month average reading of 135/85 or better. No treatment by medication.

Current blood pressure with a 12-month average reading of 135/85 or better. Blood pressure treatment is acceptable if treated by only one drug.

Current blood pressure with a 12-month average reading of 140/90 or better. Blood pressure treatment is acceptable if treated by only one drug.

Cholesterol

Current cholesterol/HDL ratio of 4.5 or less, or 5.0 or less for issue ages 65 and up. Cholesterol must also be 260mg/dl or less. No treatment by medication.

Current cholesterol/HDL ratio of 4.5 or less, or 5.0 or less for issue ages 65 and up. Cholesterol must also be 260mg/dl or less. Cholesterol treatment is acceptable if treated by only one drug and cholesterol/HDL ratio is maintained for 12 months.

Current cholesterol/HDL ratio of 5.5 or less, or 6.0 or less for issue ages 65 and up. Cholesterol must also be 280mg/dl or less. Cholesterol treatment is acceptable if treated by only one drug and cholesterol/HDL ratio is maintained for 12 months.

Driving History

No reckless driving (includes no excessive speed) or alcohol-related moving violations within 5 years, no license suspension within 3 years, and no moving violation within the last 3 years.

No reckless driving (includes no excessive speed) or alcohol-related moving violations within 5 years, no license suspension within 3 years, and no more than one moving violations within the last 3 years.

No reckless driving or alcohol-related moving violations within 5 years, no license suspension within 3 years, and no more than 2 moving violations within the last 3 years.

* Some Foreign Nationals may qualify for best class. Please refer to Foreign National guidelines. 1 Please refer to the National Life and LSW product guides for classes available. 2 Not applicable for Preferred Tobacco class. 3 See "Tobacco Use Includes" section on page 27.

31

For Agent Use Only Ł Not For Use With The Public

LIFE INSURANCE UNDERWRITING GUIDE

Table of Height and Weight, Ages 16 and Older (Permanent Products)

This chart is used as a guideline to identify the weights that are usually acceptable within the rate classes shown. Other factors, including age or disproportion in body measurements (girth of chest and abdomen), may impact the final decision.

Rate Class

Elite

Preferred

Select

Standard

Express Standard 1

Express Standard 2

BMI

18.5 to <27.1 27.1 to <29.9 29.9 to <32.7 32.7 to <37.5 37.5 to <42.5 42.5 to <46.5

Height

Weight (lbs.)

4' 8"

83Ł120

121Ł133

134Ł145

146Ł167

168Ł189

190Ł207

4' 9"

86Ł125

126Ł138

139Ł151

152Ł173

174Ł196

197Ł214

4' 10"

89Ł129

130Ł143

144Ł156

157Ł179

180Ł203

204Ł222

4' 11"

92Ł134

135Ł148

149Ł161

162Ł185

186Ł210

211Ł230

5' 0"

95Ł138

139Ł153

154Ł167

168Ł191

192Ł217

218Ł238

5' 1"

98Ł143

144Ł158

159Ł173

174Ł198

199Ł224

225Ł246

5' 2"

102Ł148

149Ł163

164Ł178

179Ł205

206Ł232

233Ł254

5' 3"

105Ł152

153Ł168

169Ł184

185Ł211

212Ł239

240Ł262

5' 4"

108Ł157

158Ł174

175Ł190

191Ł218

219Ł247

248Ł270

5' 5"

112Ł162

163Ł179

180Ł196

197Ł225

226Ł255

256Ł279

5' 6"

115Ł167

168Ł185

186Ł202

203Ł232

233Ł263

264Ł288

5' 7"

119Ł172

173Ł190

191Ł208

209Ł239

240Ł271

272Ł296

5' 8"

122Ł177

178Ł196

197Ł215

216Ł246

247Ł279

280Ł305

5' 9"

126Ł183

184Ł202

203Ł221

222Ł253

254Ł287

288Ł314

5' 10"

129Ł188

189Ł208

209Ł227

228Ł261

262Ł296

297Ł324

5' 11"

133Ł194

195Ł214

215Ł234

235Ł268

269Ł304

305-Ł333

6' 0"

137Ł199

200Ł220

221Ł241

242Ł276

277Ł313

314Ł342

6' 1"

141Ł205

206Ł226

227Ł247

248Ł284

285Ł322

323Ł352

6' 2"

145Ł211

212Ł232

233Ł254

255Ł292

293Ł330

331Ł362

6' 3"

148Ł216

217Ł239

240Ł261

262Ł299

300Ł339

340Ł371

6' 4"

152Ł222

223Ł245

246Ł268

269Ł308

309Ł349

350Ł381

6' 5"

156Ł228

229Ł252

253Ł275

276Ł316

317Ł358

359Ł392

6' 6"

161Ł234

235Ł258

259Ł282

283Ł324

325Ł367

368Ł402

6' 7"

165Ł240

241Ł265

266Ł290

291Ł332

333Ł377

378Ł412

6' 8"

169Ł246

247Ł272

273Ł297

298Ł341

342Ł386

387Ł423

Individual consideration will be given for low BMIs. Please use the Underwriting Quote Tool XRAE (Instructional PDF: Getting Started with the XRAE Field Underwriting Tool). XRAE is not available for RapidProtect.

32

For Agent Use Only Ł Not For Use With The Public

LIFE INSURANCE UNDERWRITING GUIDE

Table of Height and Weight, Ages 18 and Older (Term Products)

This chart is used as a guideline to identify the weights that are usually acceptable within the rate classes shown. Other factors, including age or disproportion in body measurements (girth of chest and abdomen), may impact the final decision.

Rate Class

Elite

Preferred

Select

Standard

Express Standard 1

Express Standard 2

BMI

18.5 to <24.9 24.9 to <27.1 27.1 to <29.9 29.9 to <37.5 37.5 to <42.5 42.5 to <46.5

Height

Weight (lbs.)

4' 8"

83Ł111

112Ł120

121Ł133

134Ł167

168Ł189

190Ł207

4' 9"

86Ł115

116Ł125

126Ł138

139Ł173

174Ł196

197Ł214

4' 10"

89Ł119

120Ł129

130Ł143

144Ł179

180Ł203

204Ł222

4' 11"

92Ł123

124Ł134

135Ł148

149Ł185

186Ł210

211Ł230

5' 0"

95Ł127

128Ł138

139Ł153

154Ł192

193Ł217

218Ł238

5' 1"

98Ł131

132Ł143

144Ł158

159Ł198

199Ł224

225Ł246

5' 2"

102Ł136

137Ł148

149Ł163

164Ł205

206Ł232

233Ł254

5' 3"

105Ł140

141Ł152

153Ł168

169Ł211

212Ł239

240Ł262

5' 4"

108Ł145

146Ł157

158Ł174

175Ł218

219Ł247

248Ł270

5' 5"

112Ł149

150Ł162

163Ł179

180Ł225

226Ł255

256Ł279

5' 6"

115Ł154

155Ł167

168Ł185

186Ł232

233Ł263

264Ł288

5' 7"

119Ł158

159Ł173

174Ł190

191Ł239

240Ł271

272Ł296

5' 8"

122Ł163

164Ł178

179Ł196

197Ł246

247Ł279

280Ł305

5' 9"

126Ł168

169Ł183

184Ł202

203Ł253

254Ł287

288Ł314

5' 10"

129Ł173

174Ł188

189Ł208

209Ł261

262Ł296

297Ł324

5' 11"

133Ł178

179Ł194

195Ł214

215Ł268

269Ł304

305Ł333

6' 0"

137Ł183

184Ł199

200Ł220

221Ł276

277Ł313

314Ł342

6' 1"

141Ł188

189Ł205

206Ł226

227Ł284

285Ł322

323Ł352

6' 2"

145Ł193

194Ł211

212Ł232

233Ł292

293Ł330

331Ł362

6' 3"

148Ł199

200Ł216

217Ł239

240Ł300

301Ł339

340Ł371

6' 4"

152Ł204

205Ł222

223Ł245

246Ł308

309Ł349

350Ł381

6' 5"

156Ł209

210Ł228

229Ł252

253Ł316

317Ł358

359Ł392

6' 6"

161Ł215

216Ł234

235Ł258

259Ł324

325Ł367

368Ł402

6' 7"

165Ł221

222Ł240

241Ł265

266Ł332

333Ł377

378Ł412

6' 8"

169Ł226

227Ł246

247Ł272

273Ł341

342Ł386

387Ł423

Individual consideration will be given for low BMIs. Please use the Underwriting Quote Tool XRAE (Instructional PDF: Getting Started with the XRAE Field Underwriting Tool). XRAE is not available for RapidProtect.

33

For Agent Use Only Ł Not For Use With The Public

LIFE INSURANCE UNDERWRITING GUIDE

Uninsurable and Problematic Risks

Non-Qualifying Conditions/Issues
Applications should not be written on individuals presenting the following impairments or issues. This list is not intended to be all inclusive.
Applicants age 60 and over must have routine health care and a physical exam within the past 24 months; otherwise, the application will be declined.

Medical Conditions Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm (present or surgery <6 months ago) Alcohol Treatment within the past 2 years ALS (Lou Gehrig's Disease) Alzheimer's Disease Cancer currently under treatment (any type)
Cirrhosis of the Liver
Cystic Fibrosis
Dementia Down Syndrome Epilepsy/seizures diagnosed within the past 6 months Gastric bypass surgery within the past 6 months Heart attack and/or heart surgery within the past 6 months Heart disorder requiring a defibrillator Heart valve surgery within the past 12 months Illegal drug use within the past 3 years Kidney failure requiring dialysis Lung disease, severe or requiring oxygen Mental health disorder requiring hospitalization within the past 12 months Organ transplant, awaiting or recipient Pregnancy with current or past complications Suicide attempt within the past year; or more than one attempt within the past 2 years Surgery, pending

Non-Medical Risks
Bankruptcy, Chapter 7, that has not been discharged
Driver's License currently suspended or revoked Single DUI within the past year Multiple DUIs within the past 5 years Criminal charges pending Probation or parole, current or <12 months since ending Multiple criminal convictions, <7 years since last conviction Violent criminal activity IOLI/SOLI Ł Investor or Stranger Owned Life Insurance Disability (receiving SSDI or DI)

34

For Agent Use Only Ł Not For Use With The Public

LIFE INSURANCE UNDERWRITING GUIDE

Medical Conditions & Potential Ratings
Qualifying Conditions/Issues
The potential rate classes listed here are based on the applicant's best possible condition (treatment, control, etc.) and specific case details will dictate final rating. If your applicant has multiple conditions or a serious condition not listed here, please contact your Underwriting Team for a tentative quote. This list is not intended to be all-inclusive.

Medical Conditions
Potential rate classes shown assume the condition has been fully evaluated and is optimally controlled without complications or residual effects. Multiple conditions may alter the potential offer, and final rating will depend on the specific details of the individual case. Alcohol use disorder with treatment (total abstinence >5 years, no relapses) Anemia, Iron-deficient (mild, single episode, resolved, no splenectomy) Anemia, Sickle-cell (mild, adults only, last episode > 5 years ago, no organ damage) Aneurysm (surgically corrected >6 months ago, resolved with no ongoing symptoms) Anxiety (depends on age, mild & stable, not chronic, diagnosis  6 months ago) Aortic insufficiency (mild, age  50, no underlying disease, aortic valve only & no surgery) Atrial fibrillation (mild, not chronic, no underlying disease, depends on frequency & cause) Asthma (mild, depends on age, treatment, number & frequency of attacks, no limitations) Autism (mild, age >8 years, no other mental health disorders or epilepsy) Back disorder/pain (mild, non-disabling, depends on dosage/number of opioid medications) Basal cell carcinoma (in-situ or 2 cm, no invasion or lymph node involvement) Bronchiectasis (mild to moderate without daily symptoms, no surgery or hospitalization) Bronchitis, chronic (mild, minimal dyspnea, no home oxygen treatment or hospitalization) Bundle Branch Block (mild, stable, normal cardiac evaluation. No complete Left BBB) Cancer (depends on pathology, in remission & not currently under treatment) Cardiomyopathy (depends on type and age, diagnosis >2 years ago, stable/resolved) Cerebral palsy (age >6 years, no epilepsy or intellectual disability) COPD (mild, minimal dyspnea, no home oxygen treatment or hospitalization) Congestive Heart Failure (mild, diastolic dysfunction only, resolved without symptoms) Coronary Artery Disease (mild, depends on treatment, age & artery(ies) involved) Crohn's disease (mild, age >30, more than 5 years since diagnosis or last major attack) Cystitis (single episode, fully recovered, no ongoing symptoms or treatment) Deep Vein Thrombosis (single episode, no underlying disease, recovered >2 months ago) Depression (mild, stable & well-controlled for >6 months, no relapses) Diabetes, Type 1 (depends on age & disease duration, stable, no complications) Diabetes, Type 2 (depends on age & disease duration, stable, no complications)

Potential Best Offer

Better than Standard

Standard

Substandard

This listing is not meant to be all inclusive. Please use XRAE (Instructional PDF: Getting Started with the XRAE Field Underwriting Tool) for an underwriting quote. XRAE is not available for RapidProtect.

The "Potential Best Offer" guidelines are provided as a courtesy for information purposes and should not be interpreted as tentative quotes or binding in any way.

35

For Agent Use Only Ł Not For Use With The Public

LIFE INSURANCE UNDERWRITING GUIDE

Diverticulitis (mild, no planned surgery, no current treatment, resolved) Drug abuse (depends on substance(s), total abstinence for >6 years, no relapses) Emphysema (mild, minimal dyspnea, no home oxygen treatment or hospitalization) Endocarditis (diagnosis >1 year ago, normal heart valves and no heart damage) Epilepsy (diagnosis >6 months ago, average 12 seizures per year, last seizure >1 year ago) Esophageal stricture (mild, confirmed benign, no ongoing symptoms) Fibromyalgia (mild, no physical or psychiatric impairments, no narcotic medication use) Gall gladder disorder (mild, recovery >3 months ago, no pending investigation or surgery) Gastric bypass (depends on procedure, >6 months since surgery, no re-hospitalizations) Gestational diabetes, not currently pregnant (fully resolved, normal A1c) Glaucoma (corrected, no recurrence) Gout (mild, only NSAID use, no ongoing therapy, no physical impairments) Head injury (single event, mild and >3 months since injury, fully recovered, no limitations) Heart valve surgery (single valve, depends on age, fully recovered, >1 year since surgery) Hepatitis B, chronic (fully resolved with normal liver enzymes and no liver damage) Hepatitis C, chronic (fully resolved with normal liver enzymes and no liver damage) Hypertension (see guidelines on pages 28-31, no other ratable health conditions) HIV (age >18, CD4 counts stable for 2 years, undetectable viral load, no hepatitis or AIDS) Hodgkin's disease (stage 1A or better, remission for >3 years, no recurrence) Hyperthyroid (stable  1 year, not current anti-thyroid medication, no atrial fibrillation) Hypothyroid (stable with no ratable hypertension or cardiovascular abnormalities) Intellectual disability (mild, age >8, no physical or psychiatric impairments or limitations) Joint replacement (fully recovered, surgery >3 months ago, no chronic pain or disease) Kidney disease, chronic (mild, controlled blood pressure, normal kidney function) Leukemia (varies based on age, type & severity, remission >5 years with no recurrence) Lupus, systemic (mild, fully resolved >6 months ago, no current symptoms or treatment) Lupus, discoid (mild, skin only, no current treatment with corticosteroid medications) Melanoma (single occurrence, stage 1A, completely excised and resolved >2 years ago) Meningitis (non-tuberculous variant only, fully recovered >6 months, no current symptoms) Migraine headaches (mild, stable with no underlying disease or adverse features) Mitral valve prolapse (mild, no symptoms, no disease, regurgitation or stenosis, no surgery) Mitral regurgitation (mild, stable, depends on age, no underlying disease, no surgery) Multiple Sclerosis (mild, stable, >1 year since diagnosis, non-disabling or progressive ) Muscular dystrophy (depends on type, mild with slow progression and minimal disability) Myositis (malignancy excluded, treatment completed >3 years ago, fully recovered)

This listing is not meant to be all inclusive. Please use XRAE (Instructional PDF: Getting Started with the XRAE Field Underwriting Tool) for an underwriting quote. XRAE is not available for RapidProtect.
The "Potential Best Offer" guidelines are provided as a courtesy for information purposes and should not be interpreted as tentative quotes or binding in any way.

36

For Agent Use Only Ł Not For Use With The Public

LIFE INSURANCE UNDERWRITING GUIDE
Myasthenia Gravis (mild, stable, diagnosis >1 year ago) Myocarditis (single episode, no underlying disease, resolution >3 months ago) Nephritis, Acute (fully recovered >1 year ago, no ongoing treatment or underlying disease) Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (stage 1 or better, remission for >3 years, no recurrence) Osteoarthritis (mild, non-disabling, no continuous opioid use for treatment) Osteomyelitis (mild, <2 attacks total, last attack >1 year ago, no history of amputation) Pacemaker (depends on underlying condition, normal pulse, >3 months since implanted) Pancreatitis, Acute (no alcohol concerns, fully recovered, last episode >3 years ago) Paralysis (no paraparesis, > 3 years since injury, fully adjusted, not wheelchair dependent) Parkinson's disease (mild, age >59, tremor only in fingers, no treatment, no dementia) Pericarditis (viral, single episode, recovered >3 months ago, normal EKG, no effusion) Peripheral vascular disease (mild, no evidence of diabetes or cardiovascular disease) Phlebitis (fully recovered, no ongoing treatment, pulmonary embolism or underlying disease) Polycystic kidney disease (diagnosis age >20, normal renal function, no kidney damage) Polycythemia vera (no thrombosis, no myelosuppressive drug use, diagnosis >2 years ago) Pregnancy, current (age <40, in good health, no past or current pregnancy complications) Prostatic hypertrophy, Benign (stable minor symptoms only, no obstruction or neoplasia) Prostatitis (mild infrequent symptoms, no obstruction or neoplasia, normal urinalysis) Raynaud's syndrome (no disability, no underlying disease, last complication >2 years ago) Rheumatoid arthritis (mild, depends on age & duration, no disability, only NSAID use) Rheumatic fever (single episode, no residual heart murmur, no heart damage) Sarcoidosis (depends on organs involved, mild/stage 1, >6 months since diagnosis) Seizures (mild, stable, average of 12 seizures per year, last seizure >1 year ago) Sleep Apnea (mild, not central or mixed apnea, consistent CPAP use, no adverse factors) Stroke (CVA) (varies based on type, fully recovered, single episode >6 months ago) Suicide attempt (single attempt >5 years ago, stable with no ongoing symptoms) Thalassemia (trait only, stable hemoglobin 10.0 for 5 years, no anemia treatment) Transient ischemic attack (TIA) (single episode, no underlying disease, fully recovered) Tuberculosis (treatment completed >3 months ago, normal lung function, negative HIV) Tumors, Benign (varies by organ, no obstruction, underlying disease, or pending surgery) Ulcerative Colitis (mild, diagnosis >6 months ago, no immunosuppressive medications) Varicose veins (located on leg, no underlying disease or thrombosis)

This listing is not meant to be all inclusive. Please use XRAE (Instructional PDF: Getting Started with the XRAE Field Underwriting Tool) for an underwriting quote. XRAE is not available for RapidProtect.
The "Potential Best Offer" guidelines are provided as a courtesy for information purposes and should not be interpreted as tentative quotes or binding in any way.

37

For Agent Use Only Ł Not For Use With The Public

LIFE INSURANCE UNDERWRITING GUIDE

Advanced Sales

National Life Group's Advanced Sales is here to help you work more effectively in the advanced markets space. If you have questions about business insurance needs, qualified plans, executive benefit plans, or premium finance cases, we can help!

With more than 180 years of combined industry experience our Advanced Sales Team is here to help you grow your business.
We specialize in working with high net worth individuals, business owners, and their families along with charitable and non-profit organizations.

We are committed to supporting your needs and the needs of your clients. We stay current in the market and understand what people are thinking from Main Street to Wall Street. At the end of the day, our job is to simplify the sales process and make doing business with us easy.

We provide your team with: Ę Direct access to our in-house team for case
consultation and point-of-sale support Ę Simplified sales concepts to help you sell Ę Case design and presentation Ę Consultation with strategic advisors --
CPAs and attorneys Ę Ongoing education and training

Here are some of the programs the Advanced Sales Team can help you with!

Ę Planning with Small Business Owners

Ę Basic and Advanced Estate Planning Strategies

Ę Nonqualified Employee Benefit Plans

Ę Legacy IRA Planning Strategy

Ę Deferred Compensation Plans

Ę Planning for Foreign Nationals

Ę Executive Bonus Plans

Ę MultiLife Program Guaranteed Issue

Ę Split Dollar Arrangements

Ę Premium Finance

Ę Qualified Plans

Ę Special Needs Planning Strategies

For help, contact our Sales Desk: 800-906-3310

38

For Agent Use Only Ł Not For Use With The Public

LIFE INSURANCE UNDERWRITING GUIDE

Underwriting Quotes

Introduction
Certain medical or non-medical impairments may require "pre-qualifying" a proposed client for insurance coverage. The Underwriting Quick Quote process will now be handled through the XRAE "Express Risk Assessment Exchange" management tool. This will allow for instantaneous assessments by evaluating a client's medical conditions against proprietary underwriting rules.
All quotes are tentative, non-binding, and subject to change after a full underwriting workup and company retention limits.
Requirements
XRAE tool requires the following fields: Ę Agent name Ę Client name Ę Gender Ę Date of birth Ę Face amount Ę Product type
Beyond the required fields above, the ability to provide details around the client's medical and non-medical history will be available. Medical conditions offered will have impairment-based reflexive questions for "best case" underwriting classifications. The more information provided, the more complete the assessment.

Quotes Requiring Underwriter Review
If XRAE is unable to make a risk assessment, the following outcome will be presented to the agent: Ę A dditional Review Required -- Click the Messaging
link to request UW review
A manual submission of the quote will be required through the messaging tool in XRAE. These requests will be handled by Underwriting within one (1) business day.
Please Note: Do NOT attach quotes to e-applications unless directed by Underwriting. Ę XRAE saves all quotes and you can refer back to them
at a later date if needed. Ę XRAE quotes cannot be used for RapidProtect.

39

For Agent Use Only Ł Not For Use With The Public

LIFE INSURANCE UNDERWRITING GUIDE
Informal Applications

Introduction
National Life Group is willing to consider informal/trial applications on a very limited basis, subject to the following parameters: Ę Permanent products only. Ę Minimum face amount: $2,000,000 Ę Maximum age: 75 Ę Time service: 5 business days Ę Do not submit informal paperwork on cases that
have been previously declined Ę Tentative offers good for 90 days.
What to submit
Information needed for an Informal A pplication are: Ę Form 1386 Informal Inquiry and Authorization Ę Form 8164 -- HIPAA-compliant authorization or
properly signed HIPAA Compliant Authorization form identifying National Life/LSW as an authorized carrier Ę Client information: Name, date of birth, Social Security number Ę Agent information: Agent code, agency office code to allow communication through the agent portal. Ę Summary page required, including case design (product and face amount requested), rate needed to place, and outline of medical history. Financial documentation is required at the time of trial in order to be considered for review
Important: No medical testing should be ordered or money collected.

Submit Forms to Home Office
Forms can be emailed to National Life Group at LargeCase@NationalLife.com
Placement
Ę Informal applications as a percentage of submitted business: No more than 5%
Ę Informal-to-formal conversion rate: 50% Ę Review will be done on a monthly, quarterly, and
year-to-date basis Ę We will consider alternative action with one quarter
of data if parameters are not met. We will require, at the firm's expense, that they pay for APS summary service, and they cannot submit full papers.

40

For Agent Use Only Ł Not For Use With The Public

LIFE INSURANCE UNDERWRITING GUIDE
Foreign National Guidelines
Who Is Considered a Foreign National?
National Life Group products are priced for the U.S. population. Our risk tolerance is measured based on the client's resident country and their permanency of residence in the U.S.
View current Foreign National Guidelines for life insurance and annuity sales.
After-Issue Contract Changes
NL and LSW Life Insurance Products
Contract changes (after the rewrite period of 120 days from the application signing date) are considered "after issue" changes. These changes are processed in Contract Change -- Inforce Customer Service. Three forms unique to after-issue contract changes: Ę Policy Change Application (used for contract changes only) Ę Term Conversion Application Ę Policy Change/Term Conversion Supplement to The Application is used anytime the after issue change or term
conversion requires underwriting. It should be noted that additional underwriting requirements may be needed at the underwriter's discretion. All changes should be submitted with a completed Customer Services Agency Transmittal (form 8042) via email to: ContractChange@NationalLife.com or Fax to 802-229-3131. View the After-Issue Contract Change Quick Reference Guide.

41

For Agent Use Only Ł Not For Use With The Public

