Living Benefits... When You Need Them Most

  Accelerated Benefit Riders

   Your Guide to Living Benefits

                                                       Page 1 of 20
What is a Living Benefit?

American National Insurance Company's Living Benefits are Accelerated Benefit Riders (ABRs) which provide the
option of receiving a partial or full accelerated life insurance benefit if the insured experiences a qualifying medical
condition.
À Partial Acceleration is paid in lieu of a portion of the policy's death benefit.
À Full Acceleration is paid in lieu of the policy's death benefit. In the case of a full acceleration, the policy will

    be terminated after acceleration is paid.
The Accelerated Benefit Riders can provide funds when they are needed to help you at a critical time and help protect
the money you have saved for retirement and other life needs.

                                                                   Page 2 of 20
The Accelerated Benefit Riders provide living benefit
options for no additional premium.1

For many years insurance was purchased to provide death benefit protection for surviving family members. However, insurance did not help
when an insured was struck down by a debilitating Critical, Chronic, or Terminal illness. American National Insurance Company now offers
you the potential to access part of your life insurance death benefit in the event you suffer a qualifying illness and may not be able to work and
have medical bills piling up.
American National's Accelerated Benefits Riders for Critical, Chronic, and Terminal illness may provide you a full acceleration of your life
insurance policy or a partial benefit that will allow you to keep the remainder of your policy. Multiple partial benefits are available if a partial
benefit is taken. For example if 25% of the death benefit is accelerated, 75% of the death benefit would remain and could be accessed later, if
needed.
The partial or full accelerated death benefit may be paid in a lump sum or applied to an annuity that will provide income for a specified
period.

     Terminal Illness

        Imagine for a moment that you go to the Doctor for a routine test and the Doctor tells you that you have at most six months
        to live. Let that sink in. It would feel like you had been kicked in the gut by a mule. It would be like sitting on a stool
        and having someone pull it out from under you. And that same feeling will be experienced by every family member and
        every friend you have. How do you deal with it? And how do you deal with the fact you will be unable to return to
        work to provide for your family; be unable to pay all of the mounting medical bills that will come in addition to life's daily
        expenses? Instead of being the care-giver for your family, your family becomes your care-giver. How do you pay for all of
        that?

     Chronic Illness

        Chronic Illness is a health condition or disease that is persistent or otherwise long lasting. Chronic Illness causes about
        70% of deaths in the U.S.2 Nearly 92% of seniors have at least one chronic disease and 77% have two or more chronic
        illnesses.3 With numbers like this, the majority of Americans will experience a debilitating Chronic Illness sometime in their
        life. When that happens your financial world is turned upside-down. How do you pay for that?

     Critical Illness

        A 25 year old male non-smoker has a 24% chance of having a critical illness (cancer, heart attack, or stroke) prior to
        turning age 65. That same age male who smokes has a 49% chance of having a critical illness prior to age 65.4 It is not
        only older Americans who are susceptible to Critical Illness as younger people also suffer from cancer, heart attacks, and
        strokes. Whether you are young or old, the same issues can arise. You could become unable to work full-time, require
        family members to miss work to provide care, and face astronomical medical bills. Where does the help come from?

  1The benefit is subject to an administrative fee of up to $500 and an actuarial discount that will be assessed when the benefit is elected.
    The maximum administrative fee may vary by state.
  2Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Chronic Disease Overview. http://www.cdc.gov/nccdphp/overview.htm. May 2014.
  3National Council on Aging. Chronic Disease Self Management Fact Sheet. December 2014.
  4National Critical Illness Risk Assessment Study, published by the American Association for Critical Illness Insurance. January 2010.

                                                                     Page 3 of 20
Certainly, carrying disability insurance and/or long term care insurance is ideal for such situations and should be considered by everyone but
not everyone can afford to purchase such coverage or keep the coverage in place for the rest of their lives.

For those individuals who need life insurance coverage and are seeking protection in the event of Chronic, Critical, and Terminal Illnesses,
American National's Accelerated Benefit Riders may be an option to potentially provide an additional financial resource if someone becomes
afflicted by a qualifying illness that results in a greatly reduced life expectancy.

The benefit these riders provide is not tied to medical bills incurred but are instead tied to the face amount of the policy, the cash value at the
time a claim is made, and the reduction in future life expectancy as a result of the illness. There is no restriction on how you may use the funds
you receive.

When computing the amount of available benefit, American National discounts the future premiums due under the policy. If someone has a Life
expectancy of 24 months, the death benefit would only be reduced by a small amount to account for the loss of two premium paying years.
However, if someone has a debilitating condition, but a ten year life expectancy, the death benefit would be reduced by a larger amount to
account for the loss of 10 premium paying years.

For example, if someone who is 50 years old has a heart attack and is back at work in three months there would not be a substantial available
benefit since the life expectancy was not dramatically impacted. However, if that 50 year old has a very severe heart attack that results in a
33% chance of living for five years, their life expectancy would be dramatically diminished resulting in a larger available benefit.

Accelerated Benefit Riders can be a safety net if a qualifying illness arises and results in a significantly reduced life expectancy. ABRs are not a
substitute for long term care insurance but can provide a potential source of funds under the proper circumstances.

                                                                   Page 4 of 20
Qualifying Conditions:

Terminal Illness         À If an eligible insured has an illness or condition that is expected to result in death
                              within 241 months or less.
Rider
                         À Available on all rate classes
(Form Series: ABR14-TM)

Chronic Illness Rider    À If an eligible insured is unable to perform 2 of 6 activities of daily living for a
                              period of at least 90 days or requires constant supervision to protect from threats
(Form Series: ABR14-CH)       to health or safety due to severe cognitive impairment.

                         À The ADLs include bathing, continence, dressing, eating, toileting, and
                              transferring.

Critical Illness Rider   À If an eligible insured experiences a critical illness2.

(Form Series: ABR14-CT)  À See rider for complete list of critical illnesses and definitions. Covered critical
                              illnesses may include:

                             1. Heart Attack
                             2. Stroke
                             3. Invasive Cancer
                             4. End Stage Renal Failure
                             5. Major Organ Transplant
                             6. ALS
                             7. Blindness
                             8. Paralysis
                             9. Arterial Aneurysms
                           10. Central Nervous System Tumors
                           11. Major Multi-System Trauma (Major injury to three or more organs or systems) -

                                  Not Available in California
                           12. AIDS - Not Available in California
                           13. Severe Disease of Any Organ (resulting in significantly altered life

                                  expectancy)
                           14. Severe Central Nervous System Disease (Parkinson's, Huntington's, Multiple

                                  Sclerosis, Encephalitis with long-term effects) - Not Available in California
                           15. Major Burns (>40% BSA, 3rd Degree)
                           16. Loss of Limbs

   Minimum Death                                         Maximum Total Death Benefit
Benefit Requirements:                                      Available for Acceleration

À Minimum $25,000 for Terminal Illness Rider             À $2,000,000 for issue ages 0-65
À Minimum $50,000 for Critical or Chronic Illness Rider  À $1,000,000 for issue ages 66+

                                                              (including all eligible riders attached to the base policy)

1Some states may limit the definition of terminal illness to conditions that are expected to result in death within 12 months.
2Claims will not be processed until at least thirty days after the qualifying illness has occurred

                                                                    Page 5 of 20
Rider Availability/Limitations:

À The chronic and critical illness versions may not be added to policies rated higher than table 4 or with flat extra rating greater than $5.00 per
     thousand. (Non-applicable in California. Please see Additional California Resident Availability/Limitations below.)

À Accelerated benefits will not be paid for conditions resulting from self-inflicted injury or attempted suicide.
À No accelerated benefit will be paid for any qualifying event that occurs on or before the date of issue of the base policy.
Policies with death benefits exceeding the maximum amount available for acceleration will still contain the Accelerated Benefit Riders; however, the owner
will only be able to accelerate up to the maximum amount available for acceleration. For example, on a $4,000,000 policy (where eligible), the owner
will only be able to accelerate $2,000,000 for an insured under 65.

Additional California Resident Availability/Limitations:

À A supplemental application is required to determine eligibility for critical and chronic illness riders.
À The chronic and critical illness versions are not available for applicants age 65 and older.
À Chronic illness is not available in conjunction with term coverage whether it is as the base policy or a rider.

Death Benefit Eligible for Acceleration:

À Primary Insured Riders are included in the Total Death Benefit to be accelerated on the Base Insured.
À Paid Up Additions Rider (MLPUA)
À ANICO Signature Term Rider (ARTR12; ULLTR13) - The ANICO Signature Term Rider also covers other insured parties
À The Other Insured Party death benefits are available for acceleration only if the Other Insured experiences a qualifying condition.
Please note that the death benefit provided by a Children's Term Rider is not eligible for acceleration.

Accelerated Benefit Amount:

The accelerated benefit amount is computed using the following formula where the actuarial discount reflects the cost of paying a death benefit prior to
the actual death of the Insured. The accelerated benefit amount will never be less than the cash value associated with the eligible death benefit.

 Eligible Death Benefit
- Actuarial Discount
- Administrative Fee (not to exceed $5001)
- Pro-rata percentage of Outstanding Policy Debt2
= Accelerated Benefit Amount
Please note the Owner must submit supporting documentation and medical records including certification from the appropriate health care practitioner
that insured has one of the qualifying conditions. If a partial benefit is requested such as 25% and there is outstanding policy debt, 25% of the debt
would be deducted from the Accelerated Benefit Amount.

1The maximum administrative fee may vary by state.
2The amount of outstanding policy loans plus accumulated interest will be deducted only if the qualifying insured is the insured under the base policy.

                                                                        Page 6 of 20
Living Benefits: Changing Real Lives

The following are actual cases of individuals filing a claim for accelerated benefits under
 the Chronic, Critical, and Terminal Illness Riders on their life insurance policies. The
product, amounts in force, amount requested and final disposition are all factual but the

        names and the specific situation has been changed to protect the recipients.

Bonnie Thomas: $234,364.24                                         Six months later Bonnie began experiencing frequent
                                                                   indigestion, bloating, and severe heartburn but thought it
Bonnie Thomas was a mother of three whose husband Bill             was due to her love for spicy foods. Several months later
was a salesman for a small manufacturing company. Bonnie           Bonnie's indigestion became worse and she started suffering
worked for an automobile dealership in the title transfer          from nausea and vomiting. Bonnie visited the doctor who
department and had been there for 12 years. In 2011, Bill          ordered multiple tests including a stomach biopsy. These tests
and Bonnie had a good year financially and decided to meet         showed that Bonnie had stomach cancer with mastitis of the
with a financial advisor who advised them to purchase life         liver in which Bonnie's liver had been almost totally displaced
insurance to provide for the family in the event of untimely       by the tumor. The news was devastating. They cried the entire
death. Bill and Bonnie decided that they would each apply for      weekend and told the children Mom was very ill. Bonnie
a $250,000 20-Year Term insurance policy from American             started treatment and was so sick that she was unable to work
National Insurance Company that they could convert to a            and Bill was forced to take time from his job to take care of
permanent policy in the future. One of the features they liked     her. Their lives would never be the same.
were the Accelerated Benefit Riders that may pay a benefit if
they had a qualifying Chronic, Critical, or Terminal illness that  Bonnie and Bill went through their savings in months, medical
impacted future life expectancy.                                   bills continued to pile up, and Bonnie became stressed over
                                                                   the financial hemorrhaging her illness was causing. Bill talked
                                                                   with their financial advisor who suggested they submit a claim
                                                                   for the Accelerated Benefit from Bonnie's term life policy.
                                                                   They applied and ten days later they were e-mailed their
                                                                   offer for $234,364.24. They were elated with the offer and
                                                                   immediately accepted. In calculating the offer, the American
                                                                   National doctor determined that Bonnie had a 4.2% chance
                                                                   of living for five years. Bonnie's claim was filed for critical
                                                                   Illness but the offer was based upon a terminal illness benefit.

                                                                                                               Continued on next page.

Page 7 of 20
Living Benefits: Changing Real Lives

Bonnie Thomas: $234,364.24 (continued)

Due to the significantly reduced life expectancy, Bonnie            after Bonnie passed. The Accelerated Benefit Rider funds
received the maximum payout.                                        allowed the family to concentrate on making memories with
                                                                    the family rather than having to stress over money. Bill later
Bill later said that when the check came in it was like Christmas   said that he would not trade the ability to make Bonnie's last
in July. They were able to get current in all of their bills which  days positive and happy for any amount of money.
reduced the massive stress Bonnie was feeling. Their children
had suffered through this with them so they were able to buy        In their case, the acceleration of the life insurance death
each of the kids some special treats to raise their spirits and     benefit was more meaningful to the family than a death
they began planning a family trip to Disney World. Bill was         benefit would have been. Bill had enough money left over
able to fly-in Bonnie's mom and brother who she had not seen        to create a college fund for the kids and pay for childcare.
in years. They laughed, they cried and, in a ten day visit,         Losing a spouse and a mother is never going to be anything
made memories that would last forever.                              but tragic but there is no price that can be placed on being
                                                                    able to make that loved one comfortable in their final days.
Bonnie went downhill over the next four months and never
made it to Disney World but Bill took the kids six months

Page 8 of 20
Living Benefits: Changing Real Lives

Robert Sanchez: $733,062.00                                       having trouble swallowing, which then led to difficult pain while
                                                                  swallowing and finally Robert began coughing up blood which
Robert Sanchez had worked his way through undergraduate           sent him to his Doctor. After multiple tests and a biopsy it was
school working during the day and going to school at night.       determined Robert had Invasive Esophageal cancer. Robert
When he married Peggy in 1972, he was able to quit                could no longer work, as he gave lectures as part of his work,
working and go to school full time until he received his PhD in   and he and his wife began to go through their liquid assets and
Management and began to teach at the University. He also          then began tapping into their retirement funds.
began doing Management Consulting on the side and over a
number of years built his consulting business up to the point he  Robert first began chemotherapy and later added radiation
needed to give up teaching and consult full time.                 therapy. Their agent was also a close friend and he immediately
Fast forward to early 2014 and now Robert was 62 years            suggested they make a claim on their American National IUL
old and needed to increase his life insurance coverage for his    policy under the Accelerated Benefit provision of the policy.
family while at the same time begin putting more money away       He helped Robert accumulate the needed documentation and
for retirement. Robert purchased an Indexed Universal Life        they filed a claim under the Critical Illness Rider. The claim
Insurance policy from American National Insurance Company.        was reviewed by an American National Physician and it was
The policy was for $882,680. Robert paid a monthly premium        determined Robert had a 17.5% chance of living for five years.
of $1,251.15.                                                     As a result American National made Robert and his family an
Robert had suffered from heartburn and acid reflux for many       offer based upon the request for a full acceleration.
years and would keep a roll of tums with him at all times to
try to sooth his stomach. In January of 2015 Robert began         The face amount of the policy was then $940,823 and the
                                                                  policy was discounted $207, 510 resulting in an offer to Robert
                                                                  for a full benefit of $733,062 or 78% of the death benefit.
                                                                  Robert and Peggy accepted the offer and immediately became
                                                                  current in their bills with a great deal of money left over to meet
                                                                  future medical bills and lifestyle needs. As this was written,
                                                                  Robert is still alive and receiving treatment for his illness knowing
                                                                  he does not have to worry about where the money will come
                                                                  from for his future medical treatment. Robert purchased his policy
                                                                  to take care of his wife Peggy and their children but wound up
                                                                  using this policy to deal with a life threatening illness that had
                                                                  become his full time job.

Page 9 of 20
Living Benefits: Changing Real Lives

Isabella Martinez: $120,522.74

                                                                    was referred to a colon cancer specialist. The colon cancer
                                                                    Doctor informed her she would need surgery to remove the
                                                                    cancer and would then need extensive radiation to try to kill
                                                                    the remaining cancer.

Isabella and Luis Martinez had worked hard to provide a             The medical bills that needed to be paid quickly went up over
better life for their kids than what they had growing up. Isabella  $60,000. Seeing the stack of unpaid bills placed a tremendous
worked for a large entertainment company and Luis was a             strain on Isabella and Luis. They knew that Isabella's American
salesman. Life was good and with two paychecks they were            National life insurance policy had the Accelerated Benefit
making more money than they ever thought they would make.           Riders for illnesses such as Isabella's so they called the agent
                                                                    who sold them the coverage to see what the procedures were
They decided to purchase two Indexed Universal Life insurance       for making a claim. They were sent a packet of material for
policies. The polices on each other would provide a death           them to complete along with the request for records of her
benefit if anything happened to either of them but would also       medical condition from the Doctors.
provide supplemental retirement income when they eventually
retired. Although Isabella was 49 years old when they took          One of American National's doctors then reviewed the
the policy out, they looked forward to having supplemental          medical records and using an online program came back with
income for their future retirement that would allow them to travel  a chance of survival for five years of 12.9% which qualified as
and spend time on hobbies and grandchildren.                        a terminal condition.

About a year after taking out the policy, Isabella began to notice  The calculations were then completed on the face amount of
that she was having digestive issues and abdominal discomfort.      $124,607 and the offer came back for $120,522.74 for a
Then one day she began having rectal bleeding and made an           full acceleration of the policy. When Isabella and Luis received
appointment with the Doctor to find out why. She also began         the letter with the offer, they gladly accepted the offer in full
feeling fatigued and felt weak for no apparent reason.              surrender of the policy. This allowed them to immediately pay
                                                                    off all of the medical bills and still have money to pay future
Isabella went to the Doctor and when she and Luis went back         medical bills as well as to make up for lost wages Isabella
to the Doctor for the results of the tests, the Doctor informed     suffered when Isabella could not work.
her that the tests indicated that she had colon cancer and she
                                                                    As of this writing, Isabella is still receiving treatment and hoping
                                                                    to beat cancer. She is no longer stressed over the bills and can
                                                                    concentrate on her treatment and getting well. This is a case
                                                                    where the Living Benefits is more valuable than the future death
                                                                    benefit. The ability to fight her cancer without the daily stress
                                                                    of "where will the money come from" is worth much more to
                                                                    Isabella and Luis.

Page 10 of 20
Living Benefits: Changing Real Lives

Rachael Roberts: $51,860.10                                        to other bones.

Rachael Roberts, age 38, tried to do everything right. She was     The Doctors began treating Rachael but she missed large
a good employee at work who contributed to her 401K; she           amounts of work due to the illness and the ensuing treatment
had purchased a condominium for herself a few years prior and      plan. Rachael ran through her liquid assets very fast and turned
visited with her Mother on a regular basis. She had purchased      to her other various assets to find money. Rachael read her
a $75,000 Executive Universal Life policy in 2011 so that she      Executive UL insurance policy and remembered that her agent
would have a death benefit to take care of her affairs that could  had told her about the Accelerated Benefit Riders and how they
also provide her potential Supplemental Retirement Income when     could help her if she had a qualifying illness. Rachael reviewed
she retired in 30 years.                                           the information and found she may be able to make a current
Rachael never felt she would have a need for her life insurance    claim on her life insurance policy through the Accelerated
policy when she was only 38 as bad things happened to other        Rider Benefits. Rachael immediately called her Agent and
people; older people.                                              asked how she could apply for benefits. Rachael completed
Then after two years Rachael began feeling tired and weak and      the paperwork and had her medical records sent in with the
experienced pain in her bones. One day she was working out         application for benefits.
and broke her left arm in a minor fall. When doctors X-rayed
the break and took additional tests they found that Rachael        The American National Doctor performed a Life expectancy
was suffering from Multiple Myeloma where abnormal plasma          calculation and determined that someone with Rachael's medical
cells build up in the bone marrow and form tumors. The Doctors     problems and age bracket had a 67% chance of surviving a five
identified one area of her body where she had such tumors but      year period. If the Multiple Myeloma had spread to other parts
determined this was a localized occurrence that had not spread     of Rachael's body, the outlook would have been a 44% chance
                                                                   of Rachael surviving for five years so Rachael was glad it had
                                                                   been caught early.

                                                                   The Executive Universal Life policy did not have substantial cash
                                                                   value which would have increased the offer. Based upon a
                                                                   full acceleration of the $75,000 face amount, the American
                                                                   National offer was for $51,860.10 or 69.15% of face
                                                                   including a $250 fee. Rachael was very happy to accept the
                                                                   offer which allowed her to meet her obligations and stay in her
                                                                   Condo. When someone is suffering terribly with an unknown
                                                                   future, the living benefit may mean more to them than the death
                                                                   benefit ever could.

Page 11 of 20
         Frequently Asked Questions

How much do these riders cost?

The Accelerated Benefit Riders are offered for no additional premium; however, the accelerated benefit is reduced by an amount
calculated based on American National's evaluation of the insured's future expected mortality at the time the benefit is exercised as
well as an administrative fee of up to $500 assessed when the benefits are elected.

The illustration shows slight, moderate, and severe impairment categories. How do you determine if
an illness is slight, moderate, or severe?

Illnesses do not fall into these specific categories, these categories are just meant to provide an example of a range of payments.
One critical illness, such as cancer, could easily result in any of the impairment categories, depending on the severity of the
illness and its impact on life expectancy.
À A slight impairment is one that does not have a severe impact on life expectancy.
À A severe impairment corresponds with an illness that is almost terminal, but not quite (roughly a 3 year life expectancy).
À A moderate impairment would be a condition that has some impact on life expectancy but not to the same extent as a severe

     impairment.
For example, early treated cancer could produce
a slight impairment that would produce a minimum
payment while advanced stage cancer could
produce a severe impairment with a payment close
to terminal, all within the cancer illness.

Why is there not an illustration of
accelerated benefit rider payments on
term life insurance policies?

ANICO Signature Term does not use an illustration
wherein current and guaranteed values are
shown. The illustration only shows guaranteed
values. Because the accelerated benefit payment
calculation relies on non-guaranteed values (such
as the interest rate used) the accelerated benefits
can only be shown on a policy form that shows
non-guaranteed values. Note: In California, chronic
illness is not available in conjunction with term
coverage whether it is as the base policy or a rider.

                                                                Page 12 of 20
     What amount can I expect to be offered if the qualifying illness is a heart attack?

       The benefit amount you can expect will vary with the severity of the heart attack and its impact on future life expectancy. For example,
       if the doctor tells you that with proper care you should live a reasonably long life, this would likely be in the "slight" category that would
       result in only the cash value in the policy being available. However, if the doctor indicated a very limited life expectancy due to the
       severity of the heart attack, then the death benefit would be discounted less and a larger benefit would be available.

     How is the benefit calculated?

       The death benefit accelerated is reduced by:
       À an actuarial discount,
       À an administrative fee (not to exceed $5001) and,
       À a pro-rata percentage of outstanding policy debt2
       The size of the actuarial discount is primarily dictated by the expected future mortality of the insured. A shorter life expectancy will result
       in a smaller discount and a larger end payment. The actuarial discount represents the cost to the company of paying the benefit before
       the actual death of the insured. This discount includes the value of all premiums the company expects to receive prior to the death of the
       insured as well as lost investment income. Additionally, the actuarial discount can vary based on how well a policy is funded. A policy
       that is close to lapsing will have a larger discount than one that is well funded (because less future premiums are expected or required).

     What factors affect the amount of the actuarial discount?

       The following factors will affect the amount of the actuarial discount relative to the eligible death benefit.
       À Accelerated Benefit Interest Rate: The greater the interest rate, the larger the actuarial discount will be. The accelerated benefit

            interest rate is determined by American National subject to a maximum value defined in the riders.
       À Severity of the Qualifying Medical Condition: The severity of the qualifying medical condition will determine the mortality

            table used by us to determine the actuarial discount. The terminal illness version will use a standard mortality table for terminally
            ill insureds, determined by us, in computing the actuarial discount. The chronic and critical illness versions will use a custom
            mortality table, determined by us, based on our evaluation of the qualifying insured's specific health condition. In general, the
            terminal illness version is expected to result in the smallest actuarial discount. Qualifying medical conditions with higher future
            expected mortality rates will result in smaller actuarial discounts than conditions with lower future expected mortality rates. It is
            possible that minor qualifying conditions will result in an accelerated benefit amount that is equal to or only slightly greater than
            the cash value associated with the eligible death benefit.
       À Future Premiums: The greater the premium required to keep the eligible death benefit in force, the greater the actuarial
            discount will be.
       À Future Anticipated Dividends: The actuarial discount will be decreased by the present value of future anticipated dividends, if
            any, for your policy.

1The maximum administrative fee may vary by state.
2The amount of outstanding policy loans plus accumulated interest will be deducted only if the qualifying insured is the insured under the base policy.

                                                                          Page 13 of 20
À Cash Value Associated with Eligible Death Benefit: In general, larger cash values will result in smaller actuarial discounts
     as larger cash values are correlated with lower future premium requirements. In addition, the cash value associated with the
     eligible death benefit determines the minimum benefit amount payable.

À Type of Life Insurance Accelerated: In most cases, the actuarial discount will be much larger on term coverage than on
     permanent coverage.

What are the procedures for making a claim?

Reporting: You must provide notice that a covered insured has suffered a qualifying medical condition. This must be done within
365 days of the qualifying illness for the Accelerated Benefit Rider for Critical Illness. American National will provide you with a
claim form and will request records of the insured's medical history, diagnoses, and treatments. In your claim form, you will tell us
what percentage of the policy you wish to accelerate. In the event of multiple partial accelerations, proof of qualification may be
requested for each claim. If you reside outside of the United States at the time of the claim, you will be required to see a U.S. doctor
in order to accelerate your benefits
Offer: If we determine that benefits are payable, we will provide you with an accelerated benefit election form which will include
an offer for an accelerated benefit payment based upon your request.
Election: In most states, you will have fifteen days following the receipt of the accelerated benefit election form to accept our offer of
an accelerated benefit payment. You will be under no obligation to accept this offer.

                                                                Page 14 of 20
Is my doctor required to certify that the condition is permanent?

No. But your doctor is required to complete a certification in regard to your health so that American National may determine if
you have suffered a qualifying illness. Note: California Residents making a claim under the Chronic Illness Rider may request that
American National have a licensed healthcare provider that is not employed by American National certify the chronic illness in lieu
of providing a certification from a licensed healthcare professional of their choice.

How do I know if I should submit a claim?

Submitting a claim for an accelerated death benefit is a personal decision that will be based on an individual's health and financial
condition. If you think you have a qualifying illness ask your doctor how it impacts your life expectancy. If you make a claim you will
never be obligated to accelerate your policy.

Is the benefit amount calculated differently if the qualifying illness is Chronic or Critical illness?

The calculations are performed exactly the same. The focus is on future expected mortality regardless of the illness. The reduction in
future life expectancy determines the amount of the available benefit.

What are the tax implications of the riders?

The receipt of an accelerated benefit payment may be a taxable event. The tax law pertaining to accelerated benefits can be
complicated. You should consult your tax advisor regarding the tax status of any benefits paid under these riders. The qualifying
conditions for the terminal and chronic illness riders are designed to comply with the Internal Revenue Code requirements for
favorable tax treatment under º101(g). Generally, the accelerated death benefit paid for terminal illness is treated like a regular life
insurance death benefit.
The amount of an accelerated benefit payment due to chronic illness that may receive favorable tax treatment is limited by IRS
Section 7702B (Treatment of Qualified Long-Term Care Insurance). You should consult with your tax advisor to determine how these
limits apply to your situation. We cannot manage these benefit limits for you.
The Accelerated Benefit Rider for Critical illness is not designed to receive favorable tax treatment. However, accelerated benefit
payments under the Accelerated Benefit Rider for Critical Illness may receive favorable tax treatment under Internal Revenue Code
Section 105(b) and 105(c).
Consult your tax advisor to determine the applicability to your individual situation.

                                                                  Page 15 of 20
If my policy is a MEC and I accelerate my death benefit, what are the tax implications?

Again, American National cannot guarantee tax treatment under any situation, including a MEC. Terminal illness is typically treated
as a death benefit in which the MEC rule should not apply. Chronic Illness typically is classified under the long term care rules which
would indicate it may not be treated as a MEC. Critical Illness is likely to be treated as a MEC.
We have not seen any IRS rulings on the treatment of a MEC for a Chronic or Critical Illness and would advise you to consult your
tax professionals regarding taxability prior to accepting an offer.
American National cannot be responsible for how the IRS treats any Accelerated Benefit Rider.

If I am taking out a policy for the minimum face amount ($25,000) that only includes the terminal
illness rider, once the account value grows to over $50K, can the chronic and critical riders be
added at a later date?

No ¡ riders are subject to the minimum face amount requirements. In this case, the chronic and critical riders would not be added to
the policy.

If a client completes a face amount increase request, are the additional ABRs added once the
increased amount is approved?

American National can add the ABRs when the increase is performed. California Residents will need to complete a supplemental
application for the Critical and Chronic riders when applying for the increase.

                                                                Page 16 of 20
What can I use the proceeds on?

American National and the rider contracts do not have any restrictions on how the payment is used. The check is made out to the
policy owner and can be used for any purpose you choose. It is your money to spend how you want.

Is a certain condition covered?

Please see the policy form for qualifying illnesses covered under this rider.

What is the qualification if I suffer from loss of limbs?

The qualifying condition must be the complete severance of two or more limbs through or above the elbow or knee joint due to
trauma or accident and results in a reduced life expectancy.
Loss of limbs as a result of a disease process is excluded from this definition.

Will a benefit be available to me under the Accelerated Benefit Rider for Chronic Illness rider if I
am able to perform some of the activities of daily living?

The payment is not determined on the inability to perform the activities of daily living. The activities of daily living are part of
the definition of chronic illness which is required to be satisfied before any benefit amount is available under the rider. Once the
qualifying illness requirement has been satisfied then the benefit amount will be determined based on future expected mortality.

Who determines the value of my accelerated benefit payment?

First, the American National doctor reviews the claim to determine if it satisfies the qualified illness requirement. Then, he will
determine the future expected mortality. Then, the actuarial department calculates the accelerated benefit payment.

Can I apply for acceleration of a specific dollar amount or percentage? I need a specific dollar
amount, how do I apply for that?

The accelerated benefit request should be for the death benefit the policyholder wishes to accelerated. After an accelerated benefit
quote is calculated the claims department can help roughly determine what percentage would need to be accelerated to provide a
certain dollar payment, if possible.

                                                                  Page 17 of 20
Why isn't the available accelerated benefit related to the amount of my medical expenses?

The payment is in no way tied to the cost of medical expenses. The value of the accelerated benefit is based on the value of the
life insurance policy and the insured's future expected mortality.

Are there any benefit limitations?

Yes. Accelerated benefits will not be paid for conditions resulting from self-inflicted injury or attempted suicide. Accelerated benefits
will not be paid for qualifying illnesses that occur prior to the issue date.

May I accelerate only a portion of the eligible death benefit?

Yes. You may accelerate any percentage of the policy you choose, subject to the maximum total death benefit available for
acceleration. There is no minimum amount to accelerate and you may take multiple partial accelerations; however, the minimum
face amount on the issued policy must be maintained in order to keep the policy in force. Although proof of qualification may be
required at each time of claim, recertification is not necessary should you elect installment payments. The policies are also eligible
for full acceleration.

What happens if the insured dies before the owner receives the accelerated benefit amount?

If the insured dies after reporting the claim, but before receiving the accelerated benefit amount, then we will rescind the offer to pay
an accelerated death benefit and pay the death benefit pursuant to the terms of the policy.

Will receipt of an Accelerated
Benefit lump sum distribution
impact my eligibility for government
benefits?

An Accelerated Benefit payment may affect
your eligibility for government benefits. The rules
for eligibility for government benefits such as
Medicaid, supplemental security income, etc.
can be very stringent with very low maximums
as far as income and assets are concerned.
Many of these rules vary from state to state.
Consult an independent advisor to determine
the impact on your eligibility before applying for
Accelerated Benefits.

                                                                Page 18 of 20
Once I elect a payment option, can that option be changed prior to the release of the proceeds (e.g.
changing from installments vs. lump sum)?

You can choose to change the option prior to payment. This change can be requested via fax or written email instructions. Once
proceeds are released as either installments or lump sum, the payment option cannot be changed.

How long does it typically take for me to receive my benefit once all processing has been completed?

Typically, claims will be processed within seven to ten business days.

Is it possible once a claim is made for a chronic illness and later filed again for the same condition
under the critical illness rider if my condition worsens?

Each claim is evaluated based on eligibility under the rider. You can submit multiple partial accelerations; however, each claim must
be eligible at the time of each claim submission.

If I applied for a policy with an initial face amount of $500,000 but reduced the face amount to
$250,000 and then had a qualifying condition one month later, can I accelerate the higher face
amount since I paid premiums for the $500,000 face amount for most of the time I had the policy?

You are only able to accelerate funds from your policy based on the face amount at the time of the requested acceleration,
regardless of the previous history of your policy.

                                                                  Page 19 of 20
    Accelerated Benefit Rider Notice:

      Policy Form Series: ABR14-TM; ABR14-CH; ABR14-CT. Forms will vary by state and may not be available in all
      states. Have your agent refer to rider forms for a complete list of illnesses and definitions. Some states may limit the
      definition of terminal illness to conditions that are expected to result in death within 12 months. The riders are subject
      to an administrative fee of up to $500 and an actuarial discount that will be assessed when the benefit is elected.
      Outstanding Policy Loans will reduce the amount of the benefit payment. The accelerated death benefit is an unrestricted
      cash payment. The Chronic and Terminal rider are intended to receive favorable tax treatment under 101(g) of the IRS.
      Receipt of a benefit could be a taxable event. You should consult a tax advisor regarding the tax status of any benefit
      paid under these riders. Receipt of Accelerated Benefits may affect your eligibility for Medicaid, supplemental security
      income, or other governmental benefits or entitlements. Before accelerating any benefit you should consult an advisor to
      determine the impact on your eligibility. Accelerated Benefit Riders are not replacements for Long Term Care Insurance.
      This is a life insurance benefit that also gives you the option to accelerate some or all of the death benefit in the
      event that you meet the criteria for a qualifying event described in the policy. This policy or certificate does not
      provide long-term care insurance subject to California long-term care insurance law. The policy or certificate is not
      a California Partnership for Long-Term Care program policy. This policy or certificate is not a Medicare supplement
      policy.
      Accelerated benefit riders ("ABR") and long-term care insurance ("LTCI") provide different types of benefits. An ABR allows
      the insured to access a portion of the life insurance policy's death benefit while living and may be used for any purpose.
      LTCI provides reimbursement for necessary care received due to a prolonged illness or disability. Coverage may include
      reimbursement for the cost of a nursing home, assisted living, home health care, homemaker services, adult day care,
      hospice services or respite care for the primary caretaker. The benefits may be conditioned on certain requirements or
      meeting an elimination period or limited by type of service, the number of days or a maximum dollar limit. Benefits under
      some ABRs and all LTCI are conditioned upon the insured not being able to perform two or more of the activities of
      daily living or being cognitively impaired. California: See form 10741-CM for a more detailed comparison of benefits
      provided by an ABR and LTCI.
      Neither American National Insurance Company nor its representatives give legal or tax advice. Agents can only discuss general
      benefits of conversion and must refer clients to their tax advisor or attorney for tax or legal advice.

      American National Insurance Company, Galveston, Texas.

  Not FDIC/NCUA insured Not a deposit Not insured by any federal government agency No bank/CU guarantee May lose value

10743 | 01.16
